The Story of the Terrorist Class ...

I would like to clear up any misconceptions you might have concerning 
the infamous Terrorist Class, as well as give a factual history of its
creation and its use. The concepts I use are broad, and I hope you
will find them good humoured. Whether you know nothing about the Great
War before the Apocalypse, or were one of its casualties, I hope you
will find this both informing and entertaining. If I may quote
liberally from one of our fine comrades:

--------------------------
 ... what the hell is the problem with this terrorist thing anyway?
People seem to think that it is the beginning of the end . . .
Terrorism on the MOO will lead to complete chaos and all that. Why are
these people on the MOO?  Don't they have any clue about what it is to
play?  I guess they will never know the thrills of a MOO killing.
Alas, . . .
--------------------------

On November 5th, 1993, wizard Daffy posted a news item telling everyone
on PMC-MOO that it was moving. Most of us didn't know what parts would 
be
moved or how, and the posting warned that we may have to port our own
stuff if we wanted to be sure it would reappear on the new MOO. Other
programmers and myself began speculating on the nature of the new MOO,
how it would be organized, and whether the recent rash of `spying' and
limited `intrusions', as well as the dissatisfaction of a lot of
veteran PMC-MOOers with the recent `quality' of conversation, would
provoke a stricter code of conduct. We joked about the possibilities.
Most people seemed to focus on the impending end of the MOO, instead
of its rebirth at a new location, and I, along with a few other
programmers, had lost all inspiration to create. A few of us began
musing over the inviting ending of Daffy's news post: All players are
encouraged to plan/program for a final apocalypnic ...apocapicnic
..apocalypso ...the end of it all.


I remember when I first logged on to PMC-MOO I was absolutely amazed.
The studious friend I logged on with immediately took to the library,
while I immersed myself in the atmosphere, trying new things, looking
around, and learning how to manipulate the virtual space with a little
programming. A little while later I met Sabat, a sunny but oft morose
X-er, with whom I explored the new area, created objects, tested
commands and verbs, and basically played. I can remember the first
time I smoked some virtual dope with him; I felt like I was 14 all
over again. It was great.

Slowly but surely we began to learn how to program, and we shared our
knowledge with others who were curious. Even then people were already
unhappy. They complained that new users were more interested in
playing around and making things than talking about Post Modern
Culture. I thought this was a shallow take on the situation, because
we were *living* PoMo, and more often than not it was a chance to
explore it more deeply than exchanging notes with other people
verbally. I've always objected to the paper-trail of academe.
Experience fortifies theory.

I created several things, all the while keeping within the default
quota of 20 objects. Talks I had with other players like femmefatale,
roxii and Smack gave me ideas about new creations, and we collaborated
on several of these. Together we made everything from birthday cakes
to church confessionals, Harley Davidsons to Hookers, all the while
sharing our insights and memories of how these things effected how we
thought and felt. Though I liked the church, I destroyed it and many
other things I made to make room for a performance space, where MOO
poetry could be read, and we might experiment (though I don't know how
just yet) with MOO music. Our aim was always to contribute to the MOO,
and to have fun doing it.

And so, towards the end of this old MOO, we exchanged ideas again.
What could we do for a grand finale? What did we want to experiment
with? How could we affect the MOO, the coMOOnity? Now was the time to
play and go for broke; though we never lost sight of common courtesy.
If you think you know otherwise, think again.

I'll take full responsibility for the MOO Terrorist Player Class,
unless someone else wants it, though many of the ideas we came up with
were shared. Anyone who has read the instructions to the Terrorist
Class should get an idea of what we were looking for. We were
experimenting with factioning the community, developing semi-tangible
classes which mimicked history or real life. The result was a
surprising parallel to it.

My first concern was that the Terrorists not use up the system
resources, and that we keep things simple. The second was that we
should not attack new users, visitors, or anyone who did not have
Programmer status. After all, this wouldn't be fair to the user in the
real world. Someone learning the system should be allowed to do so
unmolested. So we targeted the Programmers. Here, we thought, was a
group of people with enough experience and the wherewithal to handle
themselves and the situation. The Programmers would have the knowledge
to `deal' with Terrorists and appreciate them. Everyone else was a
brother/sister, a comrade. The lowly Player and Builder Classes would
be `avenged' by us. The Programmers, second only to the wizards in the
power hierarchy (and this is still a tangible hierarchy), naturally
fit the role of the upwardly mobile bourgeoisie, and thus the
Revolution was born! It was fitting that the Terrorists were reared
from both Programmer and non-programming stock. Almost too real.

To protect the system and the end users, we agreed that `spamming'
(flooding someone's terminal with text) would not be allowed. Nor
would any attack on newbies (new users) or non-programmers. To ensure
this, it was coded into all our verbs. Our bombs quite simply did not
work on anyone who did not have the Programmer Class parent. During a
bombing attack, the most that might happen to any non-programmer in
the target area was that they would `hear' and `see' a sedan race in
and lob a molotov cocktail in their midst. They would then be told
that they were not the target, and the Terrorists meant them no harm.
A maximum intrusion of 7 lines of text.

If, however, you *were* a Programmer, you would be `injured' in the
raid, and the bomb would attempt to move you to room #310 as eMOOgency
services tried to cart you off to the hospital to recover. Adding an
extra 2 lines of text to the original display. But this wasn't all the
Terrorists had to offer. We had a brief sense of community too. When
you logged on, you could type `@twho' and get a list of all the
Terrorists logged on at the time with you. Upon entering a room you
could `salute' all the other Terrorists. You could shout (not a
MOO-wide shout mind you, just a simple emote to your location)
`slogans', which were invariably some nonsense like The Programmer
Class has grown rich off the backs of the Builder Class for too long!
The Terrorists also had radios with which they could contact each
other, regardless of location. They could `steal' other people's
possessions, but always ran the risk (10%) of being caught. When this
happened, the player was told they had been clumsy and their victim
was told they had been bumped suspiciously by the assailant. Lastly,
Terrorists couldn't attack Terrorists. It was impossible. If the verb
you called tried to move another Terrorist it was instantly rerouted.
All these features made me think people would enjoy the idea of the
Terrorist Class; its spontaneity, sense of community, and ultimate
harmlessness. If the Terrorists really and truly pissed you off (and I
never met anyone they really did), you could just join them and have
an end to it! The old `if you can't beat 'em ...' strategy. And as the
creator, I purposefully left myself off the failsafe list. So I was
also subject to the bombings, stealing and killing.

In our heyday, the Terrorists had 77 members. That's 77 individuals
who thought the idea was fun and interesting, compared to the 3 or 4
complainers who *hated* `us'. And I mean HATED. These people were so
bursting with bile and aggressive hatred that they wouldn't listen for
one second to my explanation of what was going on, or how they might
avoid any problems (and even gain a few features) by joining up. You
can imagine my relief when I found out they didn't really hate me or
my intrepid comrades at all, but were confusing the Terrorist name
with the activities of one or two other people who had formed a rival
group called the PoMo Subversives. I have recently been even further
encouraged to discover that these few angry people had been hating
each other since long before the Terrorists were even a twinkle in my
eye. Well, encouraged and angry at the same time. I was disappointed
that a few in-fighting whiners had sullied our bad name, and that they
were using the MOO to settle their petty grievances. I was all the
more surprised to find out some of these people actually knew each
other in the real world.

Sadly, the ones that cried and screamed the most about Terrorist
`spamming' (which, as I have said, was never a part of the Terrorist
modus operandi, nor ever part of *any* Terrorist attack), had
previously been `spamming' others repeatedly without remorse. The
immediacy of the virtual environment and the lack of emotional and
other textual references allowed a small group argument to escalate to
a war literally over night. And even now, with all the hype and lies
and rumours and rhetoric, I have to come to the same conclusion:
nothing really went wrong. The MOO did not fall apart, or drastically
degenerate. The Terrorists were erroneously held responsible for a
personal war between a handful of people. Even after `crossing over'
to the new MOO, we see that those involved in the private battle are
still fighting with each other, sans Terrorists. This scapegoating
actually resulted in the @recycling of #777 (the Terrorist Class
object on the old MOO) on the new MOO, even though it was no longer
the same object.

Let me close by saying I've had a lot of fun on the MOO. The
interactive environment has given me the incentive to learn its
programming language and a few intricacies that I would never have
otherwise even bothered to learn. The experience I have gained here is
invaluable, and I hope to continue to contribute and collaborate with
others in increasingly creative ways. I have the utmost respect for
wizard/god Barney (aka John), the MOOs not-so-absent father, who has
gone out of his way to provide a manageable environment where learning
and creativity go hand in hand. A place where sex, race, and other
role biases are necessarily and routinely subverted and questioned.
Like any doting parent, he must be reluctant to let the MOO wander off
on its own, to experiment, explore, and make not just a few
`mistakes'. We shouldn't admonish a child for stumbling, however, lest
in fear of failure it never learn to walk. I am particularly
encouraged by Daffy's approach to the development of the MOO. It is
indeed the very rare anarchist or Marxist (or any `ist', for that
matter) who does not resort to totalitarian or fascist tactics to
`help guide the people along the path'.

To all my comrades, I wish you many more Revolutions. Viva!

OGRE


