WHEREIS MINERAL: ADVENTURES IN MOO

interactive texts by Chris Funkhouser
________________
I N T R O D U C T I O N


Casually speaking, a MOO is a text-based "virtual reality" system where many
people can connect to a common electronic database and are able create their
own "space," objects, characters, and dialog that appear on the screen as
descriptions or words in ascii (plain) text.  In a MOO, one also navigates
through digital constructions along with characters designed and directed by
others.  Technically, MOO stands for MUD, Object Oriented programming.  A MOO
combines the Internet’s Multiple-User Dimension (MUD) system with an
Object-oriented code that makes it a more dynamic textual zone (though it does
not permit the inclusion of visual images).  During the first half of the
1990s, there were hundreds of MUDs (if not more), being used for a range of
purposes by researchers, teachers, gamers, techno-thrill seekers and the like.

        Julian Dibbell, in My Tiny Life:  Crime and Passion in a Virtual World
        (New York:  Henry Holt, 1998), a supreme forebear to my book, imparts
        detailed descriptions and analysis of LambdaMOO (and such virtual
        spaces in general).  Unlike my collection, which foregrounds the
        onscreen experience and shows the control authors have (and do not
        have) over this superficial space, My Tiny Life is a deep portrait of
        LambdaMOO, which Dibbell describes as, “a very large and very busy
        rustic mansion built entirely of words.” (11)  I refer to his book for
        the most apt descriptions of the territory, as Dibbell absorbed himself
        in the “culture” of this space over a longer period of time, and
        masterfully recounts his experience and observations a MOOer.  He
        describes MOOs as “semifictional digital otherworlds” (12), that are
        “neither exactly real nor exactly make-believe, but nonetheless
        profoundly, compellingly, and emotionally true.” (17)  Dibbell saw MOOs
        as, “a vast playpen in which they [MOOers] might act out their wildest
        fantasies without fear of censure,” though his book revolves around an
        incident in LambdaMOO (a virtual rape) that illuminates the downside of
        such territory. (23)  All MUDS exist, he observes, “in a conceptual
        twilght zone between the games from which they had evolved and the
        real-life social meshes they had come to resemble.” (62)  Ultimately,
        asserts Dibbell, LambdaMOO was, “basically a map, and like all MUDs it
        mapped a place as yet uncharted by conventional cartographic means:
        the strange, half-real terrain occupied by the human animal ever since
        it started surrounding itself with words, pictures, symbols, and other
        shadows of things not present to the human body.” (62)  Idealistically,
        he believes that, “the MOO was a place people came to in part to
        exercise and share their creativity—to make culture.” (63)  Dibbell’s
        thorough exposition is a valuable study for readers who are interested
        in the sociological and emotional aspects of MOO phenomena.  As an
        informed, battle-worn study My Tiny Life offers an important view of
        the complexities of multiple aspects of MOO textuality.

The LambdaMOO logon screen reads:

        LambdaMOO is a new kind of society, where thousands of people
        voluntarily come together from all over the world.  What these people
        say or do may not always be to your liking; as when visiting any
        international city, it is wise to be careful who you associate with and
        what you say.

The operators of LambdaMOO have provided the materials for the buildings of
this community, but are not responsible for what is said or done in them….

During the period the texts in this book were composed, I ventured into three
different MOOs (LambdaMOO, ZenMOO, MediaMOO), all of which are represented
here.  I learned about the inviting and somewhat mysterious concept of MOO from
poet-professor Don Byrd, who encouraged a poetic investigation of the space.
Byrd (whose character was “Intensity”) gave me a printout of LambdaMOO
instructions, including useful commands in the margins, and suggested that
I register a character.  Engaging in such explorations—examining various
channels within newfound virtual space—was permitted at the fringes of my
graduate school research in digital textuality.  Friends and teachers satisfied
my need for “community” at the time.  Had I lacked such privileges, my
interests in the MOO may have been completely different:  more attempts would
have been made to secure new camaraderie and develop interpersonal discourse.
What interested me were the aspects of the MOO as a textual tool, a place of
creative discovery, and the development of narrative and forms of personal
expression in virtual space.

Serendipitously, Roddy Potter, a poet and friend who I’ve known more than half
of my life (and for a decade before we began to use computers to communicate
with each other), had become intensively involved in LambdaMOO subculture,
mainly to distract himself from the dissatisfactions of his life.  Remarkably,
he acknowledges that he was living more in the MOO than in his physical
location at the time (New York City).  Roddy’s character’s name was Mineral.
The title of this book combines a MOO line command (whereis) with Roddy’s
character, as I customarily began my forays into LambdaMOO by looking to see if
and where he was online and frequently followed his path.  Our exchanges are
steady and personal.  That our kinship began as teenagers, that we have
a real-life bond that stems from common interests in music and literature, is
germane to this book.  Roddy and I had been completely out of touch for many
years when Allen Ginsberg, who we shared as a teacher, rejuvenated our
connection in 1989.  In 1992 I moved back east from California and both Roddy
and I were in English doctoral programs in New York (NYU and SUNY-Albany).
This period, late 1992 and early 1993 marked my indoctrination into the
practice of using computer networks as a publisher and a writer.  Though we had
different interests in it entirely, I followed Roddy’s leads into MOO space,
and this collection would not be possible had there not been such an influence.
It became a worthwhile activity, an fresh and hip blip on the horizon.

The motivations and imaginations of the builders and drifters through this
entirely ephemeral and plastic zone unquestionably aroused my curiosity.  I did
not integrate my involvement in MOO into my life as severely as did Dibbell and
Potter.  Mine was a dalliance in comparison, to no end but to experience and
document such unusual, digitally enabled text.  Now I attempt to represent the
narrative in print for the sake of showing how I interacted with the machines
and other characters when given the opportunity to investigate
machine-modulated composition via MOO and network systems.  This was part of my
introduction to communication and community in a virtual space.  Initially
there was no intent other than research and enjoyment, or any long-range plan
of creating a book from the material.  However, I quickly found that the texts
have a performative quality to them.  Preparing for a reading at the Poetry
Project (St. Mark’s Church) in May 1993 I decided to present excerpts from
these transcripts, which I improvisationally chanted.  The audio document of
the reading was distorted even further in a recording studio, and released on
a cassette compilation by BOOG Lit.  Later I performed some of the material in
London and also on WRPI-FM radio accompanied with live spontaneous music by
James Keepnews.

Only one other time have I seen or heard MOO texts used in a way similar to my
own (or what is printed in these pages).  Helen Thorington, on a syndicated
radio program, was reading stories that she had shaped from experiences and
encounters in MOO.  In her piece, all of the commands and extraneous text are
removed.  Thorington’s approach was to smooth out her narratives into
a somewhat conventional form of fiction.  Documenting and representing the
entire textual encounter of a MOO, or as much of it that could possibly
interest readers, is an intentional aspect of this book.  To incorporate the
diversions into the narrative and on the page is not a simple process.  Since
the logs did not read what I type onto the screen the same way that the
computer (server) does, it was necessary to edit or retranslate the pages
altogether to remove extraneous words, symbols, and other errors.  One example
of this that I have left in the book is the “emote” command.  In order to
represent non-dialogic communication, such as offering a (virtual) present to
someone, a player has to type ‘emote gives candy to X,’ which will then show up
in the MOO as “Player gives candy to X.”  Some information that comes across
the screen in the MOO logs is clearly redundant and superfluous.  A fair amount
of it, if not contributing directly to the MOO narrative, does impact upon the
tale of the experience the (co-)author has during “composition” of the piece.

Many questions arise in the process of taking a transcript of events that
happened online and presenting them on the page.  All of the commands and
machine language can be removed and the words can be edited to conform to
convention.  However my motivations lead me to do otherwise; materials are
edited and formatted without masterful models to reference.  I have put
together scipts and a chapbook of MOO materials, so I have experienced editing
MOO texts for the page.  In this collection I place some of the interrupting
texts in the body of the narrative and others, such as indexes of users logged
on while these MOO sessions were happening and commands at a player’s disposal,
in a Glossary and Appendix.  Though my objective is to bring a facsimile or
depiction of the experience of the text to the reader in print, it does not
seem necessary to include such extensive (and often unnecessary) materials in
their original places.  Yet since this is a multi-author document and all
I know of the other authors is the information in the Appendix, it seems
appropriate to give them “credit” in this way.

Logs of my nearly random movements and temporal encounters in MOO space, along
with a Glossary of terms and indexes of users are glued together here.  A lot
of editing has been done to this manuscript.  It began as some 2,500 pages of
MOO logs, retrieved during summer of 2001 from a MacIntosh hard drive that had
been stored in an attic at my parent’s house in Massachusetts.  A lot of these
pages/files I can only describe as scrambled line garble, known as “snow”,
symbols and characters generated somewhere in the computer-modem-network
connection.  From my apartment in downtown Albany, I would log in to SUNY’s
server on a 2400-baud modem and type the line commands that routinely connect
me to databases in California, Massachusetts, England, or other locations.
That there would be some nonsensical interference that came to the page was not
a surprise!  The logs contained enormous formatting irregularities and some of
the salvageable content was simply uninteresting or unformed, so some of what
is left appears in media res (though many of the sessions are fully intact).
Of the three MOO spaces featured in this volume, LambdaMOO (hosted by a Xerox
server) is most prominent.  I appear as guest and as two characters in
LambdaMOO, Marble and Vortex, and definitely consider myself to have been
a participant in what Dibbell calls “LambdaMOO’s ant-farm experimentalism.”
(61)  In MediaMOO (MIT Media Lab) I was a guest (green) at a gathering, and in
ZenMOO I successfully took on the identity of Bom Shankar and other monnikers.

One feature of the system (and experience) included here is a running catalog
of on-screen difficulties.  I have left intact this feature of the logs (which
capture everything that occurs on the screen) to impart to the analog reader
the types of secondary information that intrinsically accompanies the dialog.
The reader experiences to some degree my learning of the systems and space.
However, I have attempted to avoid redundancy in these materials through close
editing.  “Movement” in the MOO happens by typing in directions such as east
( or “e”), south (“s”), northwest (“nw”), up (“u”), etc.  Having left all of
these lines in the text, I try to subvert confusion on the part of the reader
by formatting these commands with bold type.  Leaving the commnads I have
entered in the narrative in shows readers the results of choices I made (or was
required to make) at the time.  Presumably, the demarcation will help alleviate
the inclusion of such foibles.  The only other text formatting that differs
from the original ascii logs is that I have indicated a change in “place” by
presenting the names of places in italics.  I have removed all duplicate
descriptions of these places, which automatically appear upon re-entry.
Readers should refer to the Glossary to help clarify any unclear jargon.

Primarily my book serves to document one of the different forms of textuality
that has emerged as a result of computer technology.  Though I claim authorship
to this book, having contributed text and uniquely capturing the experience of
it, clearly this is a collaborative text and largely I am not the author at
all; it is form of authorship can also be viewed as accidental.  Since the
social function of the space is so overt, most of what transpires does not
pretend to invite consideration for its literary qualities.  Thus it is logical
that a deep narrative is not ultimately attained.  Nonetheless, strains of
continuity on various levels are present throughout, and a more complex picture
is hopefully indicated beneath the surface.  Standard components of fiction
such as plot and character development are minimal.  It is obvious that certain
elements of fiction are blunted by the peripatetic tendencies of the genre.
Descriptions of virtual spaces and dialog fill the pages with the chaos of the
world, overtly acknowledged and shaped here in the formation of character’s
words, interests, and identities.

Throughout my contributions to the work, which read “You say, ‘…’,” references
are made to energies close to my work as a writer.  References to thelemonade
(a poetry performance group), We Press, DIU, Ginsberg all essentially reflect
the subculture in which I was a participant in “real life.”  At the time,
I felt inclined—at least as a place to start—to inject/promote these things to
the group online.  One approach to reading or writing (and capturing) MOO-life
might be for the reader to embody the character by playing the role of the
person who is saying, ‘You say…’.  In Whereis Mineral, that person is
unquestionably me because of the real-life orientation of my character(s) as
I first engaged in MOO composition.  My approach was to be myself in it, bring
my personal interests into digital character.  Another iteration of the
experiment would broaden the self that is the ‘You say’-er.

The final section of the book, which appeared as chapbook (The Idea of
Switzerland, We Press 2001), transpired nearly a year after the previous
meetings, and is a log of Roddy Potter’s session and not my own. .  The online
poetry/poetics magazine I assembled at the time, Descriptions of an Imaginary
Universe (DIU), publicized an online meeting time and place; several readers
and associates of DIU attended.  Roddy and I logged in from the same house; he
was using my computer and host (with some difficulty).  Here this section is
a type of coda that serves as one example of a MOO poetics:  players drift and
dialog in an unformed manner, even when an attempt is made at organization.

The MOO is an expressive tool that I used for compositional and social
purposes.  These logs reveal some lack of patience and focus on my part; when
there were substantial lags, computer slow-downs, or inactivity perceived
I would move on quickly, perhaps too quickly.  It is possible that a more
sustained narrative would have been developed if I had been less restless and
free-wheeling at the time.  As it is another kind of journey, however; that
impatiently happens.  This book hopes to introduce readers unfamiliar with such
new textual zones to their presence, and perhaps to their possibilities.  The
creative, if transitory, attributes of the MOO are exposed here in a way they
are not in Dibbell’s book or anything else I have seen in print.  Yet in no way
would I claim this representation to be a definitive picture of what MOO, or
MOO writing, is about.

The final claim for these MOO texts are that they are a prototype for
interactive films or writings that will be made like this in the future, where
the viewer (or reader) is a character in a densely pre-programmed world where
narrative will be both consumed and made.  In such texts it is possible that
the reader may not always know whether it is another writer or a computer
program generating the text.  Computers do enable the programming of characters
and movements, networks dictate the access to and efficiency of the text.
These are not flawless mechanisms.  I hope that some of their defects are
apparent here, and that refinements will develop as necessary in realms of
virtual communication and expression.  What sorts of “virtual” “literature”
will develop?  It is clear, if anything, that a multiplicity of digital forms
is at hand.

Whereis Mineral wishes to raise a literal question of the title, where is the
“mineral,” the inner ore of one’s expressiveness in technologized literary
forms?  How does the transmission of what would be a poem or story or letters
on the page meld with chat rooms, networked discussion groups, and video games?
All of those elements are present here.  Virtual space is evermore animated as
each year passes.  The surface logistics of a non-animated are on display here
in rudimentary, unintentional, invented form for curiosity seekers to sift
through and consider its values beyond a document of what happened.  Looking
back at these documents nearly a decade later, the only explanation as to why
the project was not pursued further is that more demanding and pertinent
aspects of my scholarship—coursework, writing, teaching—took up all of my
available time.  Though I may have a few more MOO logs stored away somewhere,
and MOOs are still available on the Internet, my involvement with them
essentially ceased in 1994.  Nevertheless, I still see great potentials in
terms of a person developing an aesthetic while virtually communicating and
presenting themselves and their work.  As our modes of communication
increasingly involve digital mechanisms, personalization of such remains
a worthwhile pursuit.

—Chris Funkhouser
New Jersey Institute of Technology
2002
________________
Sadric waves.
Sadric [to Vortex]: eh?
duck says, "hi"
You say, "Sadric are you really on an escalator to nowhere?"
duck says, "wow"
Korvac walks around a corner in spacetime.
You say, "Has anyone seen Gam-bit?"
duck slides open the glass door to the deck and slips out, sliding it closed behind it.
Korvac says, "He left. Got bored"
Sadric [to Vortex]: If you saw the simpsons last night, you'd understand.
Sadric grins.
You say, "Where did you go?"
You say, "Sadric:  I love the Simpsons but didn't see it last night.
You say, "What happened during the Simpsons last night?"
Korvac flattens out into a largish 29 cent postage stamp and floats away.
A largish 29 cent postage stamp floats into the room and fattens up into Korvac.
**
whereis gam-bit
Gam-Bit (#50235) is in Gam-Bit's (#52300).
teleport Gam-bits
I don't understand that.
go gam-bits
You can't go that way (gam-bits).
go gam-bit's
You can't go that way (gam-bit's).
teleport vortex gam-bit's
I don't understand that.
Korvac turns into Chrysalis.
Chrysalis opens Portable Hole.
Chrysalis puts Virtual Guitar in Portable Hole.
Chrysalis closes Portable Hole.
Sadric [to Vortex]: well, the title is in reference to a bit at the end where Marge was saying that the monorail was the only folly the people of Springfield ever bought into. That and the popsickle-stick skyscraper, and the 50' magnifying glass, and the escalator to no where. (had people riding up about 50 stories and then dropping off...) :)
page gam-bit
Dr.Fate materializes out of thin air.
Sadric causes Chrysalis to fall down laughing.
Gam-Bit is not currently logged in.
Chrysalis says, "I hope it gets repeated... that sounds great"
Dr.Fate waves to all.
You say, "how can I teleport to Gam-bit's?"
Chrysalis [to Vortex]: @go #52300
Shandril teleports in.
Shandril says, "howdy!"
You say, "howdy Shandril, where you come from?"
Dr.Fate says, "To learn how to stop wasting money, give me $20."
Chrysalis teleports warm and fuzzy Greene doll out.
Chrysalis takes off her sunglasses.
Chrysalis teleports sunglasses out.
Shandril says, "In real life?"
You say, "well, what is real life?"
You blink, and suddenly Tim appears out of nowhere.
Dr.Fate flattens out into a largish 29 cent postage stamp and floats away.
Shandril says, "good point."


You say, "Chrysalis I'm wondering about you too"
Chrysalis says, "It doesn't matter WHAT real life is. It matters WHY."
Chrysalis [to Vortex]: Pardon?
Cockatoo squawks, "Ehy. What's up?"
Shandril is in Connecticut, USA.
You say, "Why? What's yer story?"
Chrysalis says, "Well, I got infected with Xenovirus Takis-A..."
A largish 29 cent postage stamp floats into the room and fattens up into Dr.Fate.
You blink, and suddenly Tim has vanished.
Chrysalis says, "I didn't draw the Black Queen, at least."
Bloaf shrinks rapidly and disappears with a "pop!"
Chrysalis smiles.
Cockatoo squawks, "quit laughing at me....quit laughing about me!!"
Shandril teleports out.
You say, "Would you like to be on a movie screen with me Chrysalis?"
Chrysalis says, "A movie screen?"
Chrysalis says, "I'm not sure people would pay to see me..."
You say, "Are you experienced?"
Chrysalis [to Vortex]: Look at me.
Dr.Fate turns his head and coughs.
Chrysalis [to Dr.Fate]: You're the doctor, the patient does that.
look chrysalis
Chrysalis
A nice young lady with transparent skin. She speaks with a British accent.
She is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 Portable Hole                           backpack
Dr.Fate says, "Blast it Jim, I'm a doctor, not a...er, yeah."
Sadric *HIGS* Shandril.
Chrysalis turns into Fortunato.
look fortunado
Sadric says, "How've ya been?"


I see no "fortunado" here.
Sadric says, "HUGS even. :)"
Sadric misses too! :)
Sadric goes back to sleep. /grin


@go #52300
You begin to move into the room but encounter some resistance. With a snap you're catapulted back where you came from.
Either Vortex doesn't want to go, or Gam-Bit's didn't accept it.
@go #52300
Fortunato says, "The nice thing about Chrysalis is she doesn't often wear clothes... and no one looks :)"
You begin to move into the room but encounter some resistance. With a snap you're catapulted back where you came from.
Either Vortex doesn't want to go, or Gam-Bit's didn't accept it.
Dr.Fate says, "Quite a shift, there, Fortunato."
Fortunato says, "After all, seeing someone's organs move is a bit.... unnerving."
Fortunato [to Dr.Fate]: Yes.
You say, “beautiful in a Ballardian way”
Fortunato says, "Ballard?"
Jezebel teleports in.
Fortunato says, "I'm a Tantric mage :)"
You say, "I'm reading THE ATROCITY EXHIBITION these days"
Jezebel says, "A tantric mage?"
Fortunato <- Korvac, testing xmorphs :)
Jezebel walked into something.
Fortunato [to Jezebel]: Yes.
Fortunato says, "Not IRL, of course!"
Dr.Fate remembers an old character on a kid's fitness show.  Mr. Goodbody or something.  Wore a bodysuit with organs and such illustrated on it.  That was fairly unnerving when I was young.
Fortunato says, "This character is."
Jezebel smiles. "Understandably."
You say, "Tell us, O wizard!"
Fortunato says, "Mr Goodbody reminded me of Richard Simmons! :P"
Fortunato turns back into Korvac.
Korvac picks up sunglasses.
Korvac wears his sunglasses.
Dr.Fate says, "Was that Richard Simmons?  It's been quite a while since I saw Mr. Goodbody."
Korvac says, "Better. Back to normal again..."
Korvac says, "Those two were characters from the WildCards books. I recommend them"
Korvac says, "Very, very highly."
You say, "Where are all of you from?"
Korvac says, "Atlanta."
A portal opens, and Cable steps through. After a quick survey of the area, he slaps a fresh power cartridge in a very large Pulse Cannon and takes a relaxed defensive posture.
Korvac waves at Cable.
Dr. Fate says, "West Virginia."
Jezebel says, "Boston"
Cable waves at Korvac.
Jezebel waves to Cable.
Korvac [to Jezebel]: Do you know owl?
Dr.Fate nods to Cable.
Cable waves at Jezebel.
Jezebel shakes her head. "Who is owl?"
Dr.Fate says, "Hmmm.  Inter-company crossover!"
Korvac [to Jezebel]: A MOOer in Boston.
Cable nods to Dr. Fate.
Korvac pulls out his Dr. Fate action figure and makes the arms flail.
Jezebel nods to Korvac. "I'll look for him on line."
You say, "I, Reptilicus, of Albany, to you -"
Korvac [to Jezebel]: Her. :)
Jezebel says, "Her :)"
Cable is beginning to believe that he has a clone running around...
Jezebel smiles at Cable.
Korvac [to Cable]: Maybe so.
Dr.Fate notes that he once saw a Dr. Fate action figure repainted into a Space Ghost action figure.  Or something like that.
Cable says, "In a Wizard?"
Korvac says, "hehe I have the real figure"
Dr.Fate says, "Yeah."
You say, "BOOGALOO"
Cable also can't believe that he was mentioned in *smut...
Dr. Fate normally, wouldn't admit to reading the occasional Wizard except under the influence of sodium pentathol.
Korvac [to Cable]: You WERE?? What message?
Jezebel says, "Smut?"
Cable says, "368"
Jezebel forgets how to subscribe/read here.
You say, "Venus aspect"
Korvac says, "It's a pun on your name"
You say, "Aquarius sun"


Korvac says, "Nothing smutty"
Cable says, "Yeah...I'm the only person on there that hasn't been insulted."
Korvac says, "I haven't."
Korvac says, "Which is surprising."
You say, "thelemonade plays in SF 2/6/ w/ R A Wilson & Hakim Bey"
Jezebel says, "How do I read any of this?"
Cable . o O ( @read --- on *smut )
Korvac says, "@subscribe *smut, then @read on smut/@next on smut"
Dr. Fate hopes Cable doesn't mind that he never liked his namesake.
Cable says, "That's OK, I have my own series now. :)"
Korvac says, "I like him, sort of."
Korvac says, "More than other Marvel characters, certainly!!"
Dr. Fate can't stand Cable.  He's the generic grim'n'gritty character.
Cable, obviously, loves his namesake.
Korvac says, "No, Punisher is"
You say, "Go ahead. What is milk?"
Korvac says, "The best Marvel character is Korvac!!"
Korvac eyes you warily.
Korvac causes Cable to fall down laughing.
Jezebel says, "What a silly message."
Dr. Fate says, "Well, Cable trumps the Punisher by being a mutant AND a cyborg, and by carrying bigger guns."
Cable nods solemnly.
Cable teleports Pulse Cannon in.
Korvac says, "I have the What If where Korvac destroys the universe"
Korvac says, "It's SO COOL"
@subscribe *smut
*smut (#51585) has 401 messages
Dr. Fate liked the Korvac storyline in Avengers.
Korvac says, "Yeah, I have the TPB - it was made for me hehehe"
The cuckoo clock begins making a small whirring noise.
>> Cuckoo! <<
You hear a small click coming from the cuckoo clock.
@read on smut
*smut has no current message
@next on smut
Message 6 on *smut (#51585):
Date:     Sun Dec 20 01:30:09 1992 PST
From:     Someone (#?????)
To:       *smut (#51585)
Subject:  smut


No, Trystan is a child molester.
Quinn is merely a run of the mill pevert...and not even a dangerous, sex crazed one at that
--------------------------


Jezebel blinks at the intro to Wing Commander II.
Dr.Fate says, "Great scott!  It's a Liefeld gun (tm)!"
Korvac [to Jezebel]: Good game!
Cable grins.
Korvac says, "Advantageous!!"
Cable loves that game.
Jezebel nods. "NICE intro."
@next on smut
Message 7 on *smut (#51585):
Date:     Sun Dec 20 01:30:22 1992 PST
From:     Someone (#?????)
To:       *smut (#51585)


So what's wrong with being a child molestor?  He just wants to be loved… is that so wrong?
--------------------------
Cable says, "Unfortunately, it runs too fast on my 486..."
@next
Message 1:
Date:     Sun Nov 22 11:11:02 1992 PST
From:     Gam-Bit (#50235)
To:       Vortex (#50457)
Subject:  hello


dear chris when d'ya get on around what time? type @go #17 to go somewhere cool
type 'send Gam-Bit' to send mail back!
--------------------------
Dr. Fate says, "The city broods..."
Korvac says, "Like... like..."
Jezebel nods. "Only got a 386."
Dr. Fate says, "like some kind of...um.."
Korvac grins at Dr.Fate.
Whereis Gam-bit
Gam-Bit (#50235) is in Gam-Bit's (#52300).
Korvac says, "Brooding thing!!"
Dr. Fate says, "brooding city."
Korvac LOVES AMBUSH BUG
Cable says, "The Brood! Back to take over the X-Men!"
@go #52300
You begin to move into the room but encounter some resistance. With a snap you're catapulted back where you came from.
Either Vortex doesn't want to go, or Gam-Bit's didn't accept it.
Korvac says, "Again???"
Cable falls down laughing.
Dr. Fate has every Ambush Bug appearance.  Really.
Korvac says, "Me too!"
@send
Usage:  @send <list-of-recipients>
        @send                      to continue with a previous draft
POP
@send Gam-bit
Dr.Fate says, "Even the pedestrian Supergirl appearance."
Subject:
[Type a line of input or `@abort' to abort the command.]
Korvac says, "hehehe"


Mail Room


Do a 'look' to get the list of commands, or 'help' for assistance.


Composing a letter to Gam-Bit (#50235) entitled "Hello"
Yo-
I don't understand that.


I'm in the living room.
I don't understand that.
@send
Usage:  @send <list-of-recipients>
        @send                      to continue with a previous draft
@send Gam-bit
Subject:
[Type a line of input or `@abort' to abort the command.]
I'm in the living room
Composing a letter to Gam-Bit (#50235) entitled "I'm in the living room"


What's up tonight?
I don't understand that.
help send
Syntax:  send


(MAIL ROOM)
Send your message and exit the mail room.
If there are bogus addresses on your To: line, the message will not be sent.
It may be, however, that valid addresses on your To: line will forward to other addresses that are bogus; you'll receive warnings about these, but in this case your message will still be delivered to those addresses that are valid.
To: Gam-bit
Your message is now to Gam-Bit (#50235).


@go Gam-bit's
There's no such place known.
@go #52300
You begin to move into the room but encounter some resistance. With a snap you're catapulted back where you came from.
Either Vortex doesn't want to go, or Gam-Bit's didn't accept it.
page Gam-bit
Gam-Bit is not currently logged in.
mail
I don't understand that.
help communication
There are several commands available to allow you to communicate with your fellow MOOers.  Help is available on the following communication-related topics:


say      -- talking to the other connected players in the room
whisper  -- talking privately to someone in the same room
page     -- yelling to someone anywhere in the MOO
emote    -- non-verbal communication with others in the same room
gagging  -- screening out noise generated by certain other players
news     -- reading the wizards' most recent set of general announcements
@gripe   -- sending complaints to the wizards
@typo @bug @idea @suggest
         -- sending complaints/ideas to the owner of the current room
whereis  -- locating other players
@who     -- finding out who is currently logged in
mail     -- the MOO email system
security -- the facilities for detecting forged messages and eavesdropping.
mail
I don't understand that.
help mail
The MOO email system allows you to send and receive messages to and from other players.  It provides commands to view and manage your own collection of saved messages and, in addition, to browse through other collections that may be available (e.g.,archives of public mailing lists).  Help is available on the following commands:


@mail     -- seeing a table of contents for a collection of email messages
@read     -- reading individual messages
@next     -- reading the 'next'     message
@prev     -- reading the 'previous' message


@send     -- composing and sending a message to other players
@answer   -- replying to one of the messages in a collection
@forward  -- resending one of the messages in a collection somewhere else


@rmmail   -- discarding some subset of a collection
@unrmmail -- undoing the most recent @rmm on a collection
@renumber -- renumbering the messages in a collection


@mail-option -- describes and sets various customization flags


help mail-forwarding
 -- describes mail forwarding
help message-sequences
 -- describes message-sequences arguments to @mail, @read, @rmm, and @answer.


For viewing collections other from your own, the following commands are useful:


@rn          -- list those collections that have new messages on them
@subscribe   -- indicate that you want @rn to report on a given collection
                  and add yourself to its .mail_notify list
@skip        -- ignore any remaining new messages in a given collection
@unsubscribe -- ignore a given collection entirely from now on.
                  and remove yourself from its .mail_notify list
@mail
>>>1:  Nov 22 11:11   Gam-Bit (#50235)       hello
----+


@next
You have no next message.
@send
You are working on a letter to Gam-Bit (#50235) entitled "I'm in the living room"
Gambit: Looking for you. What's up? Where'd you go?
I don't understand that.
@send
You are working on a letter to Gam-Bit (#50235) entitled "I'm in the living room"




help send
Syntax:  send


(MAIL ROOM)
Send your message and exit the mail room.
If there are bogus addresses on your To: line, the message will not be sent.
It may be, however, that valid addresses on your To: line will forward to other addresses that are bogus; you'll receive warnings about these, but in this case your message will still be delivered to those addresses that are valid.
J-what's up? Where'd you go?




whereis intensity


send


help




*




west
You open the closet door and leave the darkness for the living room, closing the door behind you so as not to wake the sleeping people inside.
The Living Room
It is very bright, open, and airy here, with large plate-glass windows looking southward over the pool to the gardens beyond.  On the north wall, there is a rough stonework fireplace.  The east and west walls are almost completely covered with large, well-stocked bookcases.  An exit in the northwest corner leads to the kitchen and, in a more northerly direction, to the entrance hall.  The door into the coat closet is at the north end of the east wall, and at the south end is a sliding glass door leading out onto a wooden deck.  There are two sets of couches, one clustered around the fireplace and one with a view out the windows.
You see Cockatoo, README for New MOOers, a fireplace, a newspaper, Welcome Poster, The Daily Whale, LambdaMOO Takes A New Direction, lag meter, The Birthday Machine, Helpful Person Finder, Hell Hound, and a map of LambdaHouse here.
Eun and Aardvark-V (distracted) are here.
You say, "FLIBBERGUCK!!"
look bookcases
I see no "bookcases" here.
look well-stocked bookcases
I see no "well-stocked bookcases" here.
page gam-bit
Your message has been sent.  Gam-Bit seems to be out on his feet, though.
You say, "Yo-yo"


You say, "Boo ring"
teleport gam-bit's
I don't understand that.
Joe_Strout enters through a door which suddenly appears in one wall.  Through the door, you can catch a glimpse of Joe and Shelly's Den.  The door disappears as soon as it closes.
Joe_Strout bows.
Guest comes out of the closet (so to speak...).
Joe_Strout says, "Hello, Guest."
Guest says, "hallo"
You say, "Hey Joe"
Joe_Strout says, "Yes?"
Joe_Strout is tackled by the huge Hell Hound
>>BARK, BARK<<   <feed me!>
Joe_Strout gasps for breath.
You say, "What's going on in your room?"
Joe_Strout eyes Marble suspiciously.
You say, "Are you a vampire?"
Red_Guest comes out of the closet (so to speak...).
Joe_Strout says, "Of course not.  Why would you think so?"
You say, "...or a serpent"
Joe_Strout says, "Hello, Red."
Red_Guest says, "Hi, y'all"
natasha floats dreamily into the room, her silk shift wafting on the breeze...
natasha smiles…
Joe_Strout bows to natasha.
Guest teleports out.


You say, "Bucka yucka"
natasha curtseys to joe_s
open door
I don't understand that.
open closet door
I don't understand that.
Red_Guest teleports out.
natasha poses for joe and the red guest..
Joe_Strout says, "Ah, it's been a long time.  I've missed the place..."
Joe_Strout feeds the Cockatoo.
Cockatoo squawks, "Unfortunately"
Cockatoo squawks, "Guess I should have taken an art class..."
east
Cockatoo squawks, "Whatever that series is."
You can't go that way.
west
You can't go that way.
natasha bravely gags the cockatoo, ignoring nipped fingers and frantic squawking.
Joe_Strout feeds the Cockatoo to the Hell Hound.
north
The Entrance Hall
This small foyer is the hub of the currently-occupied portion of the house.  To the north are the double doors forming the main entrance to the house.  There is a mirror at about head height on the east wall, just to the right of a corridor leading off into the bedroom area.  The south wall is all rough stonework, the back of the living room fireplace; at the west end of the wall is the opening leading south into the living room and southwest into the kitchen.  Finally, to the west is an open archway leading into the dining room.
You see Strasbourg Clock, mirror at about head height, and a globe here.
south
The Living Room
down
You can't go that way.
up
You can't go that way.
Joe_Strout says, "Marble, were you trying to communicate something to me?"
closet
You head back into the closet.
The Coat Closet
The closet is a dark, cramped space.  It appears to be very crowded in here; you keep bumping into what feels like coats, boots, and other people (apparently sleeping).  One useful thing that you've discovered in your bumbling about is a metal doorknob set at waist level into what might be a door.
living room
I don't understand that.
west
You open the closet door and leave the darkness for the living room, closing the door behind you so as not to wake the sleeping people inside.


The Living Room
natasha goes home.
You hear the distant clunk of a furnace firing up.
You say, "Joe I want to go into your & shelly's closet"
Joe_Strout says, "Don't have a closet.  Have a room, though.  Sorry, it's private."
Joe_Strout says, "And why do you want to go there, pray tell?"
You say, "oh. "
You say, "Um. to see what it looks like. Boldly go..."
Joe_Strout chuckles.
Joe_Strout says, "Well, I commend your adventurous spirit, but..."
Joe_Strout says, "there are much more exciting places to explore around here."
You say, "Like where?"
Joe_Strout says, "Even places that are unlocked."
Joe_Strout says, "You're new here, eh?"
You say, "I'm game..."
Guest teleports in.
You say, "I"
You say, "Reptilicus of Albany"
Sal buzzes in on her pretend ship.
Sal curtsies
Joe_Strout bows to Sal.
Guest says, "so whats up?"
Joe_Strout says, "Sorry Sal, I don't know the answer to your question."
Sal looks up and sees the sky and clouds


Guest teleports out.
You say, "Nuthin'"
Sal sighs


@quit
*** Disconnected ***




*




APHiD has only been to Boston once.
Trystan nods to Starsinger.
Trystan actually met yduJ a couple times.  Likes her.
Bakunin says, "Help yourselves."
Sylvia goes home.
Yellow_Guest says, "Are we *ALL* from the Boston area here?!?!?!? and all telnetting to California?!?!"
Ozy doesn't like m0tif so much
CRAZAPHiD says, "I went to the Science Museum in Boston.  My little brother threw up on the glass escalator."
Starsinger met her once. "She's fun. So're her housemates. And, for that matter, her house."


You say, "CRAZY!!"
Ozy is just learning, give him time
Aardvark-V <- down the coast in DE
Ozy only started X programming on Friday, after all
Bakunin is from NYC, but lives in Seattle now.
Ozy whees fixie update bug
APHiD is NOT a bug, he's a flakey nouveau-punk!
Trystan [to Starsinger]: Yeah, crazy bunch.  Awesome house!
Starsinger is actually in Pennsylvania right now.
The housekeeper arrives to remove Mr. Clean from The Living Room.
APHiD is from Stamford, Connecticut - telnetting from Boone, NC.
Starsinger nods. Bill-yuns of puzzles.
Bakunin grins at Oxy. And you've mastered imake already?
You say, "Who says this is a living room?"
Ozy says, "fuckno"
Deicide arrives in some non-descript unique way.
Stinglai <- IN CALIFORNIA DAMMIT
Yellow_Guest who says this is living?!?!?
Ozy TOO DAMMIT
Starsinger didn't know the Boston Science Museum had a glass escalator...
You say, "California Uber alles. viva santa cruz"
Starsinger DEICIDE
Bakunin grins. I hope to have a rudimentary knowledge of imake by 1997, but its an aggressive schedule.
brij teleports in.
spindle scampers out from behind a shadow and plops down beside brij's feet.
APHiD says, "Well, glass on the sides.  So you can see how it works."
Yellow_Guest wishes he was in California, where there's NO *!@*#!@ SNOW!!!
Aardvark-V laughs at Vortex
Starsinger says, "heya, brij"
Deicide says, "Cali gets TONS of snow :)"
Starsinger ahs. _that_. Yeah.
brij *HUGS* Trystan!
Trystan grins.
Starsinger says, "Oh, egods. It was snowing off 'n on for three days before I left. Feh."
brij hides bhind 'singer
You say, "You know Aardvark studios in santa cruz, aardvark??"
Stinglai goes home.
Starsinger boggles, and HUGS brij!
APHiD says, "Snowed here yesterday.  Didn't stick though."
Yellow_Guest wonders if Rio is nice this time of year... Ah, if only I had large sums of cash!!!
Aardvark-V [to Vortex]: No, what do they do there?
ashes has disconnected.
Bakunin <- didn't stick.
Starsinger wants money. To go to Wales.
Deicide hasn't gotten enuff snow this winter
You say, "make weird sound / word albums"
brij *HUGS* Starsinger!
APHiD just wants money.
Trystan hehs at Ss, but declines to explain why.
Yellow_Guest says, "you can have ALL the snow in my yard, it's yours for the taking... *grin*"
Kougar comes out of the closet (so to speak...).
Starsinger mms. She'll take money even if she can't go places with it.
brij rejoices in california sunshine
Kougar garoofs.
Starsinger says, "KOUG!"
Aardvark-V [to Vortex]: Sounds like my type of thing, tho.
You say, "ISHTAR!"
Starsinger wonders why, Trystan?
Trystan gave all his money away.  :-(
Kougar knarfles Starsinger hi.
Starsinger whugs Koug some
Yellow_Guest wishes he'd been around when the loot was being handed out...
Bakunin waves to the Kougareeno.
Ozy says, "KOUGAR"
You say, "Yeah, cool stuff, we press pob 1503 SC 95061"
Trystan laughs a little.
Starsinger kalumpas.
Starsinger ose Trystan
Bakunin wishes he still owned an S&L. Ah, the 80s.
Kougar gnarphles Ozy some.
brij watches in loving colour
Ozy kix himself for calling XDrawArc when he wanted XClearArea
Yellow_Guest wouldn't mind owning a small sovereign nation...
brij . o O ( living color )
Trystan . o O ( Spend all you want.  We'll make more. )
Ozy says, "HOMEY DON'T PLAY DAT"
lookbrij must goe...
Aardvark-V [to Ozy]: I believe you mean Homey don't xPlay that
Kougar gets all snoozy.
Trystan hugs brij.
Yellow_Guest says, "oh dear, what can the matter be? Seven old ladies were locked in the lavatory... (on Dr Demento now)"
Yellow_Guest says, "wierd tune...  :)"
Kougar says, "hit me with your rhythm stick!"
Yellow_Guest says, "chunder in the ol' Pacific Sea!"
Yellow_Guest says, "N-n-n-nine Coronas!"
Ozy takes Kougar's temperature!
Starsinger hugs brij
Kougar puckers.
Ozy woo
brij goes home.
Ozy kix his latest fukn update bug
APHiD is NOT a bug, he's a flakey nouveau-punk!
The housekeeper arrives to cart ashes off to bed.
APHiD [to Yellow_Guest]: Where are you calling from?
Bakunin sings, "I got the fever (Bum, ba bum  Fe-vah!)"


You say, "thelemonade is all there is, & not enough"
Kougar is a bignum.
Yellow_Guest has to pause the tape, as Dr D is going to commercial...
Trystan sighs.
Bakunin is a (void*)
Ozy aha
Ozy forgot to call a routine
Ozy is *(void *)();
Yellow_Guest sees that things are getting quiet, and pulls out the latest in Nerf technology...
You say, "I am avoid"
Bakunin says, "I am an eye-land."
Yellow_Guest bops Vortex with his Nerf Mace!
Aardvark-V says, "thats better than ovioid I guess"
You say, "No woman is safe"
Kougar says, "I am the surlaw."
Aardvark-V wanders off into the kitchen.
Yellow_Guest says, nobody's safe these days... that's why we only go out at night...
Bakunin says, "Boop boop be doo."
APHiD <-- not safe
Yellow_Guest meant to use ", not :
You say, "Black. Black & Beautiful & truthful. Am I safe??"
Cockatoo squawks, "Hey Aevl, I'm actually Nechaev."
Starsinger <- not a safe
Ozy n00ks off-by-one


You say, "Freaks, all"
Deicide waves goodbye to relevant people.
Deicide has disconnected.
Yellow_Guest unpauses the tape, as Dr D is back!
Ozy is the beginning, the end, and especially the nice juicy part in the middle
Bakunin wonders if he's relevant, and decides not.
APHiD <-- Jewish Polish Latvian Phillipino Atheist.  Safe?
Yellow_Guest says, "Laptop Unit (about cats and computers)"
Trystan . o O ( Nice juicy part in the middle. )
Guest comes out of the closet (so to speak...).


You say, "Anyone here know Gam-bit?"
Bakunin defers.


Bakunin marvels that Dr. Demento is still alive.
APHiD is also listening to Dr D right now.
Yellow_Guest recalls that Dr D has been playing for 21 years now...
You say, "figures"
Ozy wup
Ozy n00ks a structure and then uses it
Ozy says, "BAD heap. BAD."
Bakunin says, "Same gene pool as Dick Clark?"
Kougar says, "heap bad."
Ozy heh
Kougar says, "heap bad heap.  No wampum."
Ozy heap wampum etc.
Bakunin LOL at Kougar.
Ozy loses
Yellow_Guest says, "heap bad; bread good!"
You say, "beep beep"
Yellow_Guest says, "while riding in my Cadillac"
Kougar says, "stack good."
Deicide has connected.
Deicide opens his eyes and looks around.
You say, "Somoza's cadillac"
Yellow_Guest says, "'specially when it's WELL STACKED"
Kougar says, "stack safe, no holes could drive buffalo through."
Bakunin leads a failed mutiny and is forced to walk the stack.
Frand shifts out of hyperspace, coming from Hyperspace Hovel.
Frand says, "Hoy."
Yellow_Guest wonders how we got back to safes...
Cockatoo squawks, "how bout some place more central?"
Bakunin says, "Hoy, hoy."


You say, "Woj lives"
Ozy says, "WOJAHOWITZ"
Deicide waves goodbye to relevant people.
Deicide has disconnected.
You say, "si senor"
Yellow_Guest wonders if Woj is *STILL* a Sergeant?!?!?
Bakunin still isn't relevant.
Yellow_Guest saw him talking to Barney and Fish...
Bakunin <-- thread safe.
You say, "Threadgill, Henry"
Yellow_Guest says, "gotta watch out for them Threads... Dangerous stuff, that!"
Frand suffers enough netlag to kill a human.
Kougar acks at Pern ref.
Bakunin shudders. No more exceptions, please.
Cockatoo squawks, "I live near Washington, andit is a nice city"
Yellow_Guest says, "Weight Watchers; wonder what Dr D is up to here?"
A speedy and helpful robotic busboy removes the uneaten remains of a large mongoose sausage, antique wooden buttons, rs232 connectors, and port salut cheese with macamadia marshmallows pizza.
Bakunin gives the birdie a nice birdu-luude.
Yellow_Guest wasn't done with the pizza! Harrumph!
Bakunin says, "Hey! I wasn't done with that."
Yellow_Guest is wearing a Netlag-proof Vest!
wizard-list
I don't understand that.
look bakunin
Bakunin
You see a wild-eyed anarchist sipping a glass of fine cognac and wearing a T-shirt that says, I attended the Fourth Internationale with Lenin and all I got was this lousy bullet scar.
He is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 Monument
Ozy woo
Starsinger LOVED Barney Miller...
Ozy says, "how much you want for that"
look ozy
Yellow_Guest wonders what the market will bear...
Ozy
You see a huge, obese, cobalt-blue pixie with a nice orange toupee. (Pixies are bald.) He has a tattoo on his chest reading "wizard-mother", with a brand-new tattoo crossing that out and an even newer tattoo under that reading "non in loco parentis."  He has a walkman clipped to his waist.  He proudly displays Ozy's Official Helpful Person Badge.  Dr. Markov, the eminent mathematician, rides on his shoulders.  A watch strapped to his ankle reads 8:21 PM.  A shotgun engraved with the letters PFL is slung over his shoulder.  A special high-fiving glove is tucked into his belt.
He is awake and looks alert.
Trystan wants to hear all the dirt, Ss.  Was he good?
Ozy says, "LOTS"
look vortex
You see a player who should type '@describe me as ...'.
It is awake and looks alert.
Kougar says, "two buffalo, at least."
Starsinger ums. Never got that close, Trystan. Love from afar, y'know?
Yellow_Guest wonders is Barney's WIFE ever found out...
@describe me as
Description set.
Starsinger liked her, too.
Trystan grins at what he helped start.
Trystan LOL
look vortex
You see nothing special.
It is awake and looks alert.
Yellow_Guest heards that Mister Miller's having chest pains...
Starsinger hmms. Did Fish have a wife? I fergit.
Bakunin picks up a previously-unseen cellular telephone, calls Mama Bungweisi's Pizza Parlor, and places an order.
Starsinger eeps
The housekeeper arrives to cart Deicide off to bed.
Bakunin says, "Bernice, of course."
Trystan nods to Starsinger.
@describe me as poet boy who grew up on the beach, poem in head
Yellow_Guest bernice Fish; yep, they ran
Trystan nods to Bakunin.
Yellow_Guest  a shelter for juvenile delinquents
Starsinger thwaps herself on the head. "Right. How could I forget?"
Abraxas tranforms from a beam of light into himself.
Ephraim scampers out from behind a shadow and plops down beside Abraxas's feet.
Starsinger says, "Abraxas!"
Abraxas waves.
Abraxas exclaims, "Starsinger!"
Yellow_Guest says, "Yo! Dude!"
Description set.
Kougar says, "'brax."
A fast and efficient robotic delivery boy zips up, gives Bakunin a large nitrous oxide canisters, tabs of mescaline, Thai sticks, valium, and a dusting of MDA pizza and speeds away.
look vortex
poet boy who grew up on the beach, poem in head
It is awake and looks alert.
Yellow_Guest pausee the tape again, as Dr D went to commercial...
Kougar says, "the canisters make it crunchy!"
Plaid_Guest comes out of the closet (so to speak...).
Ozy says, "K00"
Bakunin drops a large nitrous oxide canisters, tabs of mescaline, Thai sticks, valium, and a dusting of MDA pizza.
Bakunin snarfs a slice of a large nitrous oxide canisters, tabs of mescaline, Thai sticks, valium, and a dusting of MDA pizza.
Abraxas KIBO
You say, "MMM. Bakunin:  I want sum..."
Yellow_Guest reciols at the mention of KIBO...
Bakunin says, "Dig in!"
You say, "Thanx, DOOD"
Yellow_Guest grabs a large slice of pizza and Digs In...
Plaid_Guest exits to the north.
Yellow_Guest is seeing vapor trails....
Bakunin says, "b00n appetit."
Cockatoo squawks, "oh... er, *nevermind...*"
Ozy dropped contrail.
Mr.Z comes flying in backwards, as if he'd been hit full force by a battering ram, and rather ungracefully, lands on his rear.  He embarrassingly gets up, brushes himself off, and tries to act casual.
Frand flees desperately into hyperspace.
Yellow_Guest belches loudly...  "Bl00p!
Fred scampers out from behind a shadow and plops down beside Mr.Z's feet.
Cockatoo squawks, "boo hisss :)"
Mr.Z bravely gags the cockatoo, ignoring nipped fingers and frantic squawking.
APHiD drops blood.
Yellow_Guest hears Whimsical Will with the Demented News
Abraxas tells Ephraim to chase the bird.
Ephraim chases after the Cockatoo.  After a brief scuffle and some tumbling, the bird escapes.
Bakunin [to Starsinger]: MrEd says hi.
Starsinger is busy reading psyche, be back soon.
APHiD drops birthday eggplant.
Kougar says, "hello, I'm Mr. Ed."
Bakunin sings, "I am Nitzer Ebb"
grab pills
I don't understand that.
Bakunin gives the horsey a nice sugarcube.
Yellow_Guest says, "ooh! just the thing for the man who has everything..."
Mr.Z gives a supersonic 'HIC!  The force of which sends him flying across the room, where he slams against the wall and disappears with a 'POP'.
Bakunin scarfs a slice of a large nitrous oxide canisters, tabs of mescaline, Thai sticks, valium, and a dusting of MDA pizza.
You say, "B, I am having trouble picking things up, spaced"
Abraxas snarfs a beer irl and proceeds to consume it forthwith.
Abraxas <hic>
Yellow_Guest suddenly feels hungry, and grabs another slice of pizza...
APHiD says, "Funny Five Time"
Yellow_Guest says, "Far out, dewdzz!"
Starsinger sez hi to MrEd
You say, "yum yum for my eyes"
Yellow_Guest Funny Five?!?!? Not for another hour...
Yellow_Guest at least her ein Boston...
Bakunin [to Starsinger]: MrEd should be here any minute, I think.
APHiD [to Yellow_Guest]: The show started at 10pm EST.
Starsinger ahas.
Ozy rewrites display code
Abraxas [to Ozy]: Happy New Year, d00d
manipulation
I don't understand that.
help manipulation
Objects usually have verbs defined on them that allow players to manipulate and use them in various ways. Standard ones are:


get  -- pick an object up and place it in your inventory
drop -- remove an object from your inventory and place it in the room
put  -- take an object from your inventory and place it in a container
give -- hand an object to some other player
look -- see what an object looks like


You can see what objects you're carrying with the 'inventory' command; see 'help inventory' for details.


Some specialized objects will have other commands. The programmer of the object will usually provide some way for you to find out what the commands are.  One way that works for most objects is the 'examine' command; see 'help examine' for details.


The following specialized objects have help entries you should consult:


notes -- objects that allow text to be written on them and read later
letters -- notes that a recipient can burn after reading
containers -- objects that may contain other objects


Yellow_Guest says, "started at 11pm on 100.7; there was a Martin Luther King special on before that."
Yellow_Guest says, "Dr D is *always* 11pm - 1am on WZLX"
Ozy says, "hey, tou too"
Ozy says, "chinese new year coming up - Monkey, I think"
Abraxas has a GUI MOO all ready, but noone to use it with
help examine
Syntax:  examine <object>
         exam <object>


Prints several useful pieces of information about the named object, including the following:
        + its full name, object number, and aliases
        + its owner's name
        + its description
        + its key expression (if it is locked and if you own it)
        + its contents
        + the 'obvious' verbs defined on it


The cuckoo clock begins making a small whirring noise.
A tiny, plastic Breyer statue of a Palomino drops to the floor with a clatter and metamorphoses into MrEd.
Bakunin gets all gui.
>> Cuckoo! <<
You hear a small click coming from the cuckoo clock.
Bakunin mindlessly consumes a slice of a large nitrous oxide canisters, tabs of mescaline, Thai sticks, valium, and a dusting of MDA pizza.
Kougar <- dog
APHiD [to Yellow_Guest]: Dr D - 10pm - Midnight on WASU
Yellow_Guest says, "A GOI moo?!?!?!?  If only there were a Macintosh client..."
MrEd whinnies cheerily.
examine mescaline
a large nitrous oxide canisters, tabs of mescaline, Thai sticks, valium, and a dusting of MDA pizza (aka #52336, pizza, large, large nitrous oxide canisters, tabs of mescaline, Thai sticks, valium, and a dusting of MDA, large, pizza, nitrous, oxide, canisters,, tabs, of, mescaline,, Thai, sticks,, valium,, and, a, dusting, of, and MDA)
Owned by waffle. The large pizza has 11 slices left. Bakunin ordered it.
Obvious verbs:
  eat mescaline
  share mescaline with <anything>
  throw mescaline to <anything>
  g*et/t*ake mescaline
  d*rop/th*row mescaline
  gi*ve/ha*nd mescaline to <anything>
MrEd makes short work of a slice of a large nitrous oxide canisters, tabs of mescaline, Thai sticks, valium, and a dusting of MDA pizza.
Bakunin ruffles MrEd's mane affectionately.
Abraxas [to Yellow_Guest]: NeXT only at present..
Yellow_Guest says, "where is WASU?"
MrEd cracks one of its teeth on a nitrous canister
APHiD says, "A Goy MOO? Oi vey!"
Starsinger says, "MRED!"
MrEd says, "STARSINGER!!!!"
APHiD [to Yellow_Guest]: Boone, NC.
Kougar gets a canister stuck to his tongue when it goes off.
MrEd nuzzles Starsinger with a velvety muzzle, ostensibly searching for sugar cubes


Starsinger notes to MrEd that TamLin says hello.
Vortex slurps a slice of a large nitrous oxide canisters, tabs of mescaline, Thai sticks, valium, and a dusting of MDA pizza.
Trystan waves goodnight to everyone.
Bakunin says, "Zounds, did I forget the ballons?"
MrEd suggests Kougar use a balloon
Starsinger comes up with chocolate. That good enough?
MrEd waves at TamLin via Starsinger
Trystan has disconnected.
TamLin waves back.     --Starsinger
Yellow_Guest *loves* chocolate!!!  *YUM*
Abraxas . o O ( DPS Level II )
Yellow_Guest wonders why horses have all the fun...
MrEd makes short work of a slice.
Starsinger too
Zippy wakey!!!!!!!!!!!
MrEd <--One Fun Horse.
Ozy says, "ZIP"
Starsinger hmms. "It's cause they're furry, YG. And large."
Bakunin whinnies sympathetically.
Starsinger says, "ZIP"
Zippy QQQQQQQQQQQQQQgR
Bakunin says, "Y Pizp!"
Kougar says, "where it counts."
MrEd says, "Pizpy!"
APHiD says, "Chocolate triggers the chemical in the brain which has been linked to love."
Zippy MERDDERDMEMDRMDER
Kougar qnarfles Zippy groof!
Yellow_Guest recalls being called "Stallion", and suddenly comprehends all...
Abraxas waves at Zippy.
Zippy BAKALAKASHBOOM!
Bakunin sips at some Liquid Sky.
Zippy tackles Kougar!
MrEd eyes Kougar, and regrets being neutered.
Yellow_Guest says, "Hita Zipster!"
Ozy says, "YAY"
Zippy wavey
Ozy says, "NO MORE REDRAW BUGS"
APHiD is NOT a bug, he's a flakey nouveau-punk!
Yellow_Guest (hita == hiya)
Ozy kix aphid's fucking :tell
Zippy TACKLES Ozy and Kougar and Starsinger!
Bakunin <- punky nouveau-flake.
The cockatoo wriggles out of the gag.
Cockatoo squawks, "Starsinger!"
Yellow_Guest says, "the game is FOOTBALL!!"
Ozy uff da
Abraxas | APHiD is NOT a bug, he's a flakey nouveau-punk!
MrEd will give Zippy some Merde!
Kougar makes eyes at MrEd, but then is tackled.
Ozy says, "How bout them cowboys, eh?"
Ozy grins
The fabric of Space itself is torn; from the Black Void without, a huge scaly hand with talons like scimitars gently deposits Euphistopheles from its sofa-sized palm.
Hideous_Yellow_Eye pops out of its socket and levitates nearby.
Ozy edits repro.c
Bakunin says, "Cowboys heap good stack, one horsey."
Kougar says, "how 'bout them *?"
Euphistopheles bows
Starsinger says, "yoof"
APHiD exits to the north.
Zippy has phone-hair.
Euphistopheles says, "hi star"
MrEd eyes Euphistopheles's entrance message amusedly.
Yellow_Guest sees your horsey, and raises three buffalo...
Zippy says, "The hair by my ears is all flat."
Starsinger whugs Zip and Koug and Ye Horse
MrEd . o O ( phone-hair?  Totally tubular! )
MrEd whuggles Bakunin
Bakunin says, "Penguin dust, I want penguin dust, give me penguin dust."
Zippy dust, I want etc
Kougar wants cowboy lips.
Yellow_Guest says, "gag me with a pitchfork, fur shurr!"
Bakunin puts on his rawhide nightie, just for MrEd.
Yellow_Guest says, "*COWBOY* *LIPS*?!?!?  Ewww!"
MrEd LOL at Bakunin, and keeps those dawgies movin'.
Bakunin yee-hahs desultorily.
*ZIPPY* *LIPS*?!?!?  Ewww!
The housekeeper arrives to cart Trystan off to bed.
Grump walks in very softly.
Euphistopheles says, "I don't think we've met previously, Kate."
Euphistopheles bows to grump
Kougar groofs to Grump.
MrEd begs for the riding crop as well.
Cockatoo squawks, "how bout some place more central?"
Prattledancer teleports in.
Bakunin waves to the Grumpster.
Yellow_Guest waves to the G-dude
MrEd whickers a cheery hello to Grump, then chokes on its own insouciance.
Grump wvs
Prattledancer waves to Gruparama
Starsinger says, "grump!!"
Bakunin takes out a hefty insouciance policy on MrEd.
You say, "OOMPA OOMPA"
MrEd hellos Prattledancer
Grump says, "my favorite horse"
look prattle dancer
I see no "prattle dancer" here.
Yellow_Guest heard that a representative from Elmer's Glue is coming over tonight...
look prattledancer
Prattledancer
Prattledancer apppears as a five foot tall crucifix set on a backing of chrysler fenders. He sports ray ban de soleil lotionglasses, has brown hair, and eyes of purest hazelmelba
He is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 Pdancer's Ring (worn)
Bakunin says, "Another one? "
Bakunin snickers.
Kougar says, "too many insouciance chefs the brothel."
Starsinger nods Yoof. "We haven't, leastwise not formally. Good to meet you."
MrEd glowers meaningfully at Yellow_Guest.
Prattledancer says, "I'm sorry, Ctulu can't take your call right now, please leave a message at the sound of the AIIYAAAIH!"
Yellow_Guest says, "They just won't leave this place alone...  :/"
Cockatoo squawks, "people there are as rude as you"
You say, "More the merrier!"
Euphistopheles bows to starsinger.
Zippy hi5s bird.
Ozy firez up a big make
MrEd . o O ( Kate.  Her name is Kate.  I like that. )
Bakunin gives the boid some of the good cuttlebone.
Yellow_Guest pauses for the comercials again...
Smith comes out of the closet (so to speak...).
Starsinger . o O ( Why thank you )
Prattledancer says, "who wants trident?""
Bakunin is against nukes, thanks anyway.
Yellow_Guest says, "not me! Ewww!~"
Smith waves to all.
Kougar has more than three, and likes it that way.
Zippy peers atta MrEd.
Grump says, "cukes?"
Cockatoo squawks, "chunder in the ol' Pacific Sea!"
Yellow_Guest says, "Eye Dew! Eye Dew!"
Zippy says, "cukes?"
Ozy wants Clove chewing gum SO BAD
Ozy can't find it anywhere
Prattledancer stabs the respondents with a giant three pronged devil's fork.
Yellow_Guest says, "must be related to Wood Eye..."
MrEd CONFESSES TO SPOOFING< OK????!!!!!!!!
Kougar loved violet gum!
Bakunin wants propolis gum.
You say, "God misses Johnny Carson"
Ozy likes BlackJack chewing gum too, but can't find it, EITHER
Kougar ACKS.
Ozy says, "same company"
Ozy says, "Rare gum (tm)"
Zippy says, "Dam Rair (tm)?"
Bakunin wants a hot & corrosive ATOMIC FIREBALL candy.
Kougar yups.
You say, "I want sum"
MrEd remembers both violet and Blackjack gum.  As well as Teaberry.
Ozy doops
Grump says, "Oh, you can't something and chew gum at the same time?"
Yellow_Guest has never tried anchovy bubble gum...
Ozy grins Zippy
Grump forgets what the 'something' was
Starsinger says, "walk"
Ozy eeeeeee YG
Abraxas hasn't chewed gum since Reagan fell asleep in the cabinet.
Bakunin says, "Gonna wash that Nair right outta my gum."
Yellow_Guest unpauses now that Dr D is back
Ozy hasna had Violet gum
Kougar found violet gum in the San Jose Amtrack station.
Look Zippy
Zippy
Too good to be true.  He is wearing Zippy's Official Helpful Person Badge, but appears to be off duty.  He seems to have a transparent shield surrounding him, rendering him impervious to food fights.
He is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 pepto bismol
Ozy says, "FISH GUM sounds good"
Ozy's cat would love it
Zippy gum.
Bakunin says, "Herring gum!"
You say, "Kougar, where U B ?"
MrEd [sings] Fish Gum, Fish Gum, Roly Poly Fish Gum....
Yellow_Guest wonders if that's really *violent* gum... causes riots to break out... :/
Kougar says, "Palo Alto, right now."
Ozy wheeee
Ozy is SO CLOSE
Prattledancer hefts his shotgun across the candy store counter.
Bakunin chews on some guar gum.
Kougar can smell Ozy, even.
You say, "AH. Me home Santa Cruz, though I'm upstate NY now"
Yellow_Guest wonders what Ozy is Close to...
Prattledancer says, "ain't no looters gettin' the juicy fruit"
Ozy EEEEEEEEEe
MrEd goggles Xanthan gum, and then Gum Arabic.
Ozy dumps core!
Abraxas turns into a bright flash of light and disappears.
MrEd also gobbles.
Kougar says, "Bubble Cud."
chow gum
Kougar hmms.
Yellow_Guest was splashed by that core dump...  Ewww!
I don't understand that.
MrEd giggles
jump
I don't understand that.
Ozy makes with -g
Bakunin says, "Is that the kind comes with Terrorist trading cards?"
Prattledancer ,due to a spelling error is chewing Guam, much to the chagrin of the island nations inhabitants
Ozy says, "it's actually faster for me to make with -O thanks to NFS and -g making bigger exe's"
Ozy says, "sad, eh"
look yellow_guest
a Mysterious Entity whose origins are lost in the mists of pre-History...
He is awake and looks alert.
Kougar hees.
MrEd giggles at the Prattler.
Zippy too
Yellow_Guest steps through a dimensional vortex and showers off the residue, then returns...
Kougar says, "in three native flavors!"
Bakunin says, "Would you like some Guyana with that?"
Zippy wants some Chad.
Bakunin  Jeremy.
MrEd [to Bakunin]: Grape-flavored Guyana.  Matches the kool-aid.
Zippy Jeremy the Wicked
Ozy WANTS CLOVE GUM NOW
Q arrives.
Kougar hees.


Yellow_Guest thought he saw Cthulhu chewing his bubble-Guam...
Starsinger says, "Q!!"
Kougar groofs Q.
You say, "Or  "
Bakunin nods at the equine one sage-brushly.
Euphistopheles bows
Q waves.
Prattledancer recieves a collect call from cthulu
The fabric of Space itself is torn; from the Black Void without, a huge scaly hand, with talons like scimitars, gently plucks Euphistopheles into its sofa-sized palm; you smell ozone as the Rend seals.
Ozy says, "Q!"
You say, "REPENT!!"
Zippy AIEEEE
MrEd saw a werewolf with a Chinese menu in his hand.  Walking through the streets of Soho in the rain.
Bakunin says, "Kiribati Kool-aid?"
Cockatoo squawks, "yep, Doctor Demento, on WZLX 100.7 in Boston."
Zippy watches another commercial with MORPHING, AIEEE
Q says, "It's been a while - 40 days, I think.  Like the Great Flood, or something."
Ozy gdbs xmice
Starsinger don' wanna repent.
Zippy rips his eyes out!
A speedy and helpful robotic busboy removes the uneaten remains of a large nitrous oxide canisters, tabs of mescaline, Thai sticks, valium, and a dusting of MDA pizza.
**
Zippy WANNA VALIUM.
Starsinger nods Q. Kinda amusing.
Bakunin grabs a few of the mescaline tabs before the pizza foes.
Ozy says, "nmice = 0? EEEEEEEEEEEEEEE"
Yellow_Guest sells Zippy a new set of eyes;
MrEd giggles.
Zippy <-- Pizza foe
MrEd falls in love with Zippy's mother.
Q says, "yduJ got mad at me for not deleting my mail, but I don't know _HOW_ to delete messgaes - nor to type, obviously."
Bakunin <-- DeFoe gras.
Grump blinks
Starsinger likes Cthulhu.
Grump [to Q]: help @rmmail
You say, "I'm outta here PERSONS . . . havva pleasurable tomorrow"
Cockatoo squawks, "Sharon (next to Canton)"
Zippy [to Q]: Help @rmmail
Zippy loses bad.
MrEd [to Q]: type @rmm <specify number of message or range, eg: 1-402.>
Grump grins
MrEd waves Vortex
Starsinger says, "Grump!"
Yellow_Guest says, "seeya, Vort!"
Xorian leaps down from somewhere above you and dusts himself off.
Bakunin <-- autochthonic
Q says, "Bye!"
Ozy firez up a kompile
Grump [to Q]: type '@rmmail 1-$', and then '@renumber'
Grump says, "Starsinger!"
Q says, "thanks muchly all!"
Xorian greets all present.
MrEd [to Grump]: THAT's an even better idea.
Yellow_Guest greets Xor
Bakunin says, "Ta, Q."
MrEd waves a hoof.
MrEd . o O ( Ta Q Very Much. )
Ozy fehs at bug
Yellow_Guest says, "Well, I gotta go, myself; Catch ya later, folks!!"
Grump says, "TNIGAESRRS"
@quit
Dagard appears, stepping out of the darkness.
Yellow_Guest says, "Party On, dudes!"
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.




*




Ardvark-V says, "oops, vortex?"
flyboy turns and disappears, leaving no trace...
A green cloak flutters in from above.  As it touches the ground, TamLin appears inside, holding a sign reading:  Now _that's_ the way to travel!
TamLin holds up a sign reading: hallo
TamLin *HUGS* Starsinger!
You say, "the animal soup of time"
Red_Guest comes out of the closet (so to speak...).
Sylvia smiles.
Kougar groofs TamLin!
TamLin grins.


Starsinger *hugs* Tam back. Wow. Didn't see you log on.
Nechaev teleports in.
You say, "images juxtaposed"
Red_Guest says, "Hey everyone!"
TamLin yups.
TamLin smiles.
Sylvia says, "not split pea soup of time?"


You say, "poor human prose"
Nechaev says, "where's Teal_guest?"
Xandu has connected.
Red_Guest waves at Nechaev
Nechaev says, "i'm lookin for that son of a bitch"
TamLin just dropped in to say hi real quick.
TamLin holds up a sign reading: Hi!
Starsinger says, "Hullo, Nechaev"
TamLin waves.
TamLin goes home.
Red_Guest waves at TamLIn
The housekeeper arrives to cart NightWatcher off to bed.
Starsinger sez hi.
You say, "Urp"
Xandu waves.
Nechaev says, "I want to ram my katana down his throat"
You say, "Boy-yoy-ing"
Red_Guest says, "What's your problem Nechaev?"
Danger-Mouse teleports in.
Penfold walks into the room, and promptly stumbles on the floor.
Nechaev says, "hey Red_guest"
Nechaev says, "you're really teal guest aren't you?"
Red_Guest wants to steal Nechaev's sword.
look nechaev
a slender, conditioned man wearing all loose, black clothing is before you. As he moves, he seems to control every muscle in his body. His eyes take in the surroundings, including your stare, in a determined and calculating manner.
He is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 dagger                                  vambraces
 ring of wonders                         sai named "death"
 suit of chainmail                       katana named "avenger"
 leather jacket                          kite shield
 skull-cap                               backpack
 greaves
Hiro teleports in.


look vortex
poet boy who grew up on the beach, poem in head
It is awake and looks alert.
Red_Guest says, "Who's teal guest?"
Xandu [to Hiro]: I'm stopping for the night
Danger-Mouse goes home.
Penfold leaves the room, and you can see him stumble as he goes...
Nechaev says, "xandu, what's up"
Xandu asks, "ACK! Is she / he still here?"
Look hiro
  You really can't seem to get your eyes focused on this man. His image appears to shimmer before you.
He is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 Computer
Red_Guest says, "What kind of name is Xandu?  Is that African?"
Nechaev says, "who?"
Hiro says, "it is made up..."
west
You can't go that way.
Xandu exclaims, "Jeez, how many different ways are there to interperet my name!"
Red_Guest says, "Danger-Mouse!  Hello."
north
The Entrance Hall
Guest arrives from the south.
north
Red_Guest arrives from the south.
You open the front door and walk outside.
Driveway
A circular driveway, in front of LambdaHouse. The LambdaHouse front door is to the south. The drive curves away to the northeast and northwest. To the southwest is the garage.  A small glass booth with a sign reading "Information" has been built here. The front light of LambdaHouse is blazing.
You see Lambda MoosPaper here. You carefully shut the door behind you.
east
You can't go that way.
west
You can't go that way.
north
You wander out toward the street.
Street in front of LambdaHouse
A quiet east-west street that runs in front of LambdaHouse. There's a large tree, with a white painted trunk, in the middle of the road. You see the lights of the neighborhood, and the stars through the branches of the tree. There is a rope ladder here which leads up into a cardboard box at the top of the tree.
You see Road Construction Warning Sign and Buddy here.
Buddy waves to Vortex. "Hi, I don't think we've met before!"
You say, "prolly not"
Buddy wonders if Vortex likes him.
look buddy
A genial fellow, if a bit stupid. You can tell by that he'd really like to be your pal. As you look more closely at him, you notice he seems to be made of wood and metal. He's carrying a large sign with the letters 'I AW A RO80T' scrawled on it. A tear seems to be permanently painted on his cheek.
He is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
  buddy bag
  dime
Buddy wonders why Vortex isn't carrying anything.
look dime
I see no "dime" here.
Buddy got lost trying to find Vortex's home the other day...
You say, "Lost? Where?"
Buddy wonders why Vortex isn't carrying anything.
You say, "No woman, no cry"
You say, "What's up, Buddy?"


Buddy got lost trying to find Vortex's home the other day...
up
Top of LambdaStreet Tree
Through the branches, you can see an enormous house to the south, a store of some sort to the northwest, and a glint of silver to the  southwest. The rest of the neighborhood is hidden by the branches.
You see Big Cardboard Box here.
look big cardboard box
Big Cardboard Box
You see a cardboard box.  A piece of paper which has ``Secret Club'' written on it in crayon is attached to the side of the box with scotch tape.  The top is closed.
You hear nothing from inside the box.
open box
You climb into the box.
I can't move you.
open box
You climb into the box.
I can't move you.
up
You can't go that way.
Down


Street in front of LambdaHouse
Buddy waves to Vortex. "Hello again!"
A large orange sign with black stripes around it..
It reads:


      CAUTION
    Men Working
   Women Working
  Animals Working
   Aliens Working
   Ghosts Working

There Is No East Here
There Is No North Either


(You finish reading)
Buddy smiles at Vortex.
You say, "hello Buddy, are you an alien? a ghost?"
Buddy wonders if Vortex likes him.
south
You walk purposefully toward LambdaHouse.
Driveway
south
You open the front door and go in.
The Entrance Hall
You carefully shut the door behind yourself.
west
The Dining Room
This room is dominated by a large pearwood table and six matching chairs.  There are a pair of large bookcases on the north wall and doors into the kitchen to the south.  To the east is an open archway leading into the entrance hall.
You see Mastermind Board, Mastermind Instructions, Deck of Playing Cards, GOPS, Automatic Poker Pot, Trivia thing, zoologist, Rog's solver for Frand's mind bender, go board, Frand's mind bender, PenteSet, Number puzzle, Frand's chessboard, UpWords board, blackbox, 'nopoly bank, Moonopoly Board, Rubik's Cube, Snap's connect-4 board, Frand's reversi board, Ghost game, Twister (tm), Scavenger Hunt List, Frand's backgammon board, and Scrabble Board here.
push bookcases
I don't understand that.
east
The Living Room
Starsinger lags, too.
Zippy FUKN lags.
Kougar fondles Zippy's id.
Red_Guest says, "I'm hornier than a toad."
**
The housekeeper arrives to remove Guest.
Zippy [to Red_Guest]: Are you the teal_Guest from before?
Red_Guest teleports out.
Zippy guesses not.
@home
I don't understand that.
home
You click your heels three times.
The Coat Closet
The closet is a dark, cramped space.  It appears to be very crowded in here; you keep bumping into what feels like coats, boots, and other people (apparently sleeping).  One useful thing that you've discovered in your bumbling about is a metal doorknob set at waist level into what might be a door.
@quit
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.




*




The elevator doors open.
out
You walk out of the elevator.
Sixth-floor Atrium
A mist-filled space. The topology of this floor is unclear.
Obvious exits: library to Library, down to Media Lab Roof, alum to Alumni Hallway, south to Ballroom Foyer, and elevator to elevator
You see an elevator call button here.
The elevator doors close.
south
You enter the ballroom foyer.
Ballroom Foyer
The ballroom foyer has a green marble floor with swirls of gold.  The walls are a rich green velum, and the white ceiling forms a pointy peak in the center.
Obvious exits: south to The Ballroom, east to Men's Dressing Room, west to Women's Dressing Room, and north to Sixth-floor Atrium
Cerulean_Guest and andru are here.
andru goes south.
south
The Ballroom
Hanging from the peaked ceiling thirty feet above, an art deco chandelier shines.  You can see its reflections in the marble floor, which is a deep green with whirls of gold.  Behind the black slate bar built into the west wall, Lucy is making drinks.  Sunken down two steps is a large, octagonal dance area.
Obvious exits: north to Ballroom Foyer, northeast to Men's Dressing Room, northwest to Women's Dressing Room, and south to Dance Floor
You see Lucy and plate of cheese here.
Plaid_Guest, Moulton, Killer, Jade_Guest, emr, Alan (miffed), and Robyn are here.
You wonder if you should dress for the occasion.
You step quietly into the ballroom, feeling underdressed.
andru returns to the ballroom.
andru steps off the dance floor.
andru steps into the foyer.
emr drinks the Turkish coffee.
Drave returns to the ballroom.
Drave has arrived.
Drave [to Alan]: Why are you miffed?
You say, "Greetings country-persons!"
look drave
You see a wizard who chooses not to reveal her true appearance.
She is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 tmp                                     tmp2
Drave is wearing clean but well-worn jeans, a faded Phish t-shirt and a comfortable old pair of Birkenstocks.
Alan [to Drave]: "I forget"
Robyn goes home.
Alan looks puzzled.
emr [to Alan]: Was it because of Albert's belch?
You say, "Where are you from, Drave?"
Alan [to Drave]: "Oh, I remember.  Albert belched at my arrival."
Drave says, "I'm at the MediaLab; what about you?"
You say, "I'm at Albany, USA"
look green_guest
Abbe pauses in the doorway of The Ballroom, gazing around the ballroom.
A voice announces, "Abbe".
Abbe has arrived.
Guest is wearing neatly-pressed, green business attire and looking alternatively amazed and lost.
It is awake and looks alert.
Drave says, "nice outfit, Abbe."
look Abbe
You see a player who should type '@describe me as ...'.
It is awake and looks alert.
Abbe is wearing A purple satin tuxedo with a tie-dyed cumberbund in a fractal pattern.
Abbe says, "thank you!"
@describe me as
Abbe steps onto the dance floor.
Alan [to Abbe]: "Hi again"
Description set.


look green_guest
You see nothing special.
It is awake and looks alert.
@describe me as blue-jeaned, shoeless, purple-tie dye t-shirtted poet.
Lucy begins wiping down the bartop.
Alan sips his wine.
Drave orders wine
Lucy says "I'll pour that right away."
Description set.
order guiness
I don't understand that.
Lucy hands you a chilled wine glass.
Lucy brings Drave a glass of white wine.
Drave says, "i'm headed south, folks.  See you later..."
Drave steps onto the dance floor.
south
You step onto the dance floor.
Dance Floor
The large, octagonal dance area is inside the ballroom, set two steps down.  The floor here is a polished mahogany, which reflects the lights of the chandelier above.
Obvious exits: north to The Ballroom
You see The Band here.
Blue_Guest, Abbe, and Drave are here.
Drave says, "You can teach the band new stuff Abbe."
Abbe says, "really, i can teach the band new stuff..how?"
look the band
The members of the band are dressed in formal attire, as the occasion demands.  Amazingly, the number of players and the instrumentation change to perfectly suit each song!  You realize that they are actually a very nice hologram, with simulated 3d audio output!
Abbe says, "i'd like to make a request!"
You say, "Me too"
Drave says, "type @examine band then you'll see the options."
@examine band
The Band (#695) is owned by Amy (#75).
Aliases:  The Band and band
Obvious Verbs:
  g*et/t*ake band
  request <anything> from band
  @remove-song <anything> from band
  @list-songs band
  @responsible*-for-that-last-song band
  d*rop/th*row band
  gi*ve/ha*nd band to <anything>
@list-songs band
Songs in the band's repertoire:
1: Sweet Transvestite, suggested by Hacker (#37)
2: Billy Lee, suggested by Hacker (#37)
3: Walk on the Wild Side, suggested by Hacker (#37)
4: The Time Warp, suggested by Hacker (#37)
5: Vogue, suggested by Hacker (#37)
6: I Want To Be Me, suggested by Hacker (#37)
7: Smells Like Teen Spirit, suggested by Hacker (#37)
8: Hanky-Panky, suggested by Hacker (#37)
9: Shama Lama Ding Dong, suggested by Hacker (#37)
10: Girls Just Wanna Have Fun, suggested by Hacker (#37)
11: Tainted Love, suggested by Hacker (#37)
12: Rock Lobster, suggested by Hacker (#37)
13: the Safety Dance, suggested by Hacker (#37)
14: Brigadoon, suggested by Hacker (#37)
15: Copland's 3rd, suggested by Hacker (#37)
16: Buffalo Gals by Malcolm McClaren, suggested by Amy (#75)
17: I'll be Mellow When I'm Dead, suggested by Guest (#113)
18: Sweet Dreams are Made of This, suggested by Lenny (#115)
19: Suffragette City, suggested by Paul (#559)
20: Truckin', suggested by Paul (#559)
request "Freebird" from band
You tell the band leader your request.
The band leader says "Sure thing. We'll play that next."
look Blue_guest
Guest is wearing neatly-pressed, blue business attire and looking alternatively amazed and lost.
It is awake, but has been staring off into space for 53 minutes.
Abbe makes a special request from the band.
look green_guest
blue-jeaned, shoeless, purple-tie dye t-shirtted poet
It is awake and looks alert.


You say, "Anybody been anywhere exciting in this-here Media Lab?"
Drave says, "did you see the map?"
You say, "Nope."
Drave says, "we've just started, so it's not very built up yet?"


You say, "AH"
You say, "Tried to look@ the map, no luck--"


Drave says, "you need to read map... it's a note, and that's what they do..."
read map
I don't understand that.
You say, "Who are 'they'?"
Drave says, "theY--notes"
Amy steps onto the dance floor.
look amy
Amy is 5'8 with shoulder-length wavy brown hair, and mischievous grin which seems to say "Can you believe I get paid to do this?"
She is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 APHiDs Generic Bartender                Generic Talking Poster
 test note                               Improved Generic Bartender
 super sub feature
Amy is wearing a classic black cocktail dress and snakeskin pumps.
andru steps onto the dance floor.
Alan (pleased) steps onto the dance floor.
look alan
A man, five-ten, long black hair, full beard and moustache.
He is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 wine
Alan (pleased) is wearing a pair of hallucinogenic socks, kevlar bermudas, and a Harley t-shirt.
Amy hands andru a rose which he places between his teeth. Then Amy leads andru through a rhythmic tango, stepping across the floor and ending with Amy holding andru in a low dip.
Amy smiles
andru crashes headlong into Amy. "Okay, tell me how to view a piece of Moo code, such as a verb implementation."


You say, "Ooo. Nice!"
Drave thrashes her head around and leaps toward Amy in a vicious, two-person slamdance.
You say, "Go for it!"
andru tries to avoid snagging Amy with his pants.
look andru
A two-month-old infant
He is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 thin brown paper bag                    faded issue of The Uncanny X-Men
andru is wearing vibrant shiny fuschia suit-jacket with barbed-wire pleated pants and yellow silk tie ripped halfway down.
Amy says, "well, you can @show anything to get listing of verbs there"
Amy says, "and you can @list object:verbname"
Tom materializes out of thin air.
Tom says, "hi abbe"
Abbe says, "hi tom"
Amy laughs, looking at Andru's outfit
andru says, "@list is what I needed to know. Thanks. The help system is sort of hard to get through."
Lucy sees the wine going untouched and comes to collect it.
Alan looks surprised.
Alan [to Tom]: "Tom!"
Abbe says, "so tom, what's new in Stuportino!"
Tom says, "Alan!"
Look tom
He is barefoot and balding, with long hair and a beard.
He is awake and looks alert.
Tom is wearing a tuxedo with a bow tie and cummerbund with flashing red lights.
Alan says, "Geez, this is old home night and no one told me."
Lucy sees the glass of white wine going untouched and comes to collect it.
@list object: verbname
I don't understand that.
@list object:verbname
Abbe says, "ah alan, i didn't realize it was you! as in Mr. Gestureman!"
I don't understand that.
Tom says, "Not much new in fabublous copper-town except rain rain rain"
Abbe says, "clearly this event has quite a guest list:-)"
list
I don't understand that.
@show anything
I don't understand that.
Alan bows.  "Yup.  It is I."
andru leaves the dance floor.
Abbe says, "well, i would love to stay and chat, but in fact, i have to go down to "
list wine:verbname
Alan says, "Indeed.  Paul Dourish was on earlier from Camb. England."
I don't understand that.
Abbe says, "whoops, the real snakepit and do some work!"
Abbe has disconnected.
east
You can't go that way.
west
You can't go that way.
south
You can't go that way.
southeast
You can't go that way.
northeast
You can't go that way.
northwest
You can't go that way.
north
You leave the dance floor.


The Ballroom
You see Lucy and plate of cheese here.
Plaid_Guest, Moulton, Killer, Jade_Guest, emr, ebob, |>oug, and andru are here.
You wonder if you should dress for the occasion.
You step quietly into the ballroom, feeling underdressed.
Tom returns to the ballroom.
Tom steps off the dance floor.
@list cheese:verbname
I don't understand that.
Tom steps into the foyer.
eat cheese
I don't understand that.
You say, "Lucy, may I have some cheese?"
look plaid_guest
Guest is wearing neatly-pressed, plaid business attire and looking alternatively amazed and lost.
It is awake, but has been staring off into space for 2 hours.
andru steps into the foyer.
look moulton
It's the schmeggegy scientist from MicroMuse.
He is awake, but has been staring off into space for an hour.
Moulton is wearing a suit of a curious material which shimmers and fascinates.
look killer
the inventor and director of the to be famous Late Night Drive In Fetish Club.
It is awake and looks alert.
Killer is wearing a cyborg overcoat, radioactive, with a Homer Simpson theme.
You say, "Nice outfit killer!"
Killer says, "I like yours too"
look jade_guest
You see something special.
It is awake, but has been staring off into space for 13 minutes.
Jade_Guest is wearing an off-the-shoulder black velvet dress with handmade wide white lace all along the slightly veed neckline.
Albert returns to the ballroom.
Albert has arrived.
You say, "When do we begin to P*A*R*T*Y?"
ebob steps onto the dance floor.
look ebob
I see no "ebob" here.
Albert parties
look bobo
I see no "bobo" here.
look bob
I see no "bob" here.
|>oug steps through the velvet curtain into the men's dressing room.
|>oug goes northeast.
look
Plaid_Guest, Moulton, Killer, Jade_Guest, emr, and Albert are here.
Albert takes a nugget of cheese from the plate.
Albert takes a helping of cheese from the plate.
Albert takes a serving of cheese from the plate.
Albert takes a lump of cheese from the plate.
Albert takes a chunk of cheese from the plate.
Moulton has disconnected.
Albert eats a lump of cheese.
Albert eats a chunk of cheese.
look albert
You see a freshman learning his way around the Media Lab.
He is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 Backpack                                helping of cheese
 nugget of cheese                        serving of cheese
Albert is wearing a loincloth of many colors.
Albert eats a serving of cheese.
Albert eats a helping of cheese.
Albert eats a nugget of cheese.
Looking underdressed, Kid_Gloves timidly steps into the ballroom.
Kid_Gloves materializes out of thin air.
Alan (sweaty) returns to the ballroom.
Alan (sweaty) steps off the dance floor.
Albert rubs his belly
Alan (sweaty) steps through the velvet curtain into the women's dressing room!
Alan (sweaty) goes northwest.
eat a nugget of cheese
I don't understand that.
look kid_gloves
You see a handsome high-tech glove floating in space. He used to occupy space in the Medialab but has moved on into the real world.
He is awake and looks alert.
Killer steps into the foyer.
Kid_Gloves steps through the velvet curtain into the men's dressing room.
Kid_Gloves goes northeast.
north
You step into the slightly brighter light of the foyer.


Ballroom Foyer
Cerulean_Guest, andru, and Killer are here.
look cerulean_guest
Guest is wearing neatly-pressed, cerulean-blue business attire and looking alternatively amazed and lost.
It is awake, but has been staring off into space for 3 hours.
You say, "Where U going Killer?"
north
Sixth-floor Atrium
Tom is here.
Killer has arrived.
Library
This space hasn't been developed yet.  I plan to have links to interesting RL documents, such as papers players have written or found interesting.  If you have suggestions, or have seen something similar implemented elsewhere (preferably in a MU*), please send Michele email (mevard@media.mit.edu).
Obvious exits: out to Sixth-floor Atrium
You see an old terminal here.
Killer has arrived.
**
Killer says, "Hi"
Orange_Guest has arrived.
You say, "Yo Killer..."
Killer says, "finally we're alone"
You say, "Kill anyone lately?"
Orange_Guest says, "not quite alone..."
You say, "OOOOooo"
look orange_guest
Guest is wearing neatly-pressed, yellow business attire and looking alternatively amazed and lost.
It is awake and looks alert.
Killer says, "well, Shiuittt"
You say, "What's up cyberpholk?"
Killer says, "guess who's next on my list "
Orange_Guest dissolves into a glob of ones and zeros and flows into the screen of an old terminal!
You say, "I hope it's me..."
Killer says, "I wanna party"
You say, "Me too"
You say, "Where?"
Killer says, "take my hands and I'll take you to heaven"
take Killer's hand
I see no "Killer's hand" here.
You say, "Not sure how to do that"
Killer says, "let's go pogoing in the Ballroom!"
You say, "OK"
out
Sixth-floor Atrium
south
You enter the ballroom foyer.
Obvious exits: south to The Ballroom, east to Men's Dressing Room, west to Women's Dressing Room, and north to Sixth-floor Atrium
Cerulean_Guest is here.
Killer steps in from the atrium.
west
You step through the velvet curtain into the women's dressing room.
Women's Dressing Room
The dressing room is a clutter of gowns, hats, and gloves from all different eras.  Type 'examine rack' for more information.
Obvious exits: east to Ballroom Foyer and south to The Ballroom
You see women's clothing rack and a gold plaque here.
Violet_Guest and Alan (somber) are here.
Kid_Gloves materializes out of thin air.
Alan searches through the women's clothing rack.
Killer steps through the velvet curtain into the dressing room.
Killer has arrived.
Alan searches through the women's clothing rack.
Alan searches through the women's clothing rack.
Alan searches through the women's clothing rack.
Alan searches through the women's clothing rack.
Alan searches through the women's clothing rack.
Killer says, "you can't escape now Alan"
Alan searches through the women's clothing rack.
Alan [to Killer]: "And why would I want to?"
Alan searches through the women's clothing rack.
Alan searches through the women's clothing rack.
look alan
A man, five-ten, long black hair, full beard and moustache.
He is awake and looks alert.
look gold plaque
I see no "gold plaque" here.
Killer says, "well, now you want anymore"
Alan searches through the women's clothing rack.
Alan searches through the women's clothing rack.


Alan searches through the women's clothing rack.
Alan searches through the women's clothing rack.
south
The Ballroom
Plaid_Guest, emr, Michele, and |>oug are here.
look emr
emr is a short woman with bright red hair.
She is awake, but has been staring off into space for 29 minutes.
emr is wearing a floor-length green-sequinned evening gown, matching sling-back heels, and dangling diamond earings.
Michele orders vanilla milkshake
Lucy says, "Lots of calories in that, aren't there?"
Lucy turns away from the counter, and you hear a blender hard at work.
Lucy brings Michele a vanilla milkshake.
Michele says, "thanks"
|>oug says, "When does the music start?"
look michelle
I see no "michelle" here.
Michele says, "the music is on the dance floor...  south (but it's got a bug right now.)"
look michele
A grad student who's carrying various books and papers she should probably be reading.
She is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 Wind-Up Puppy                           map1
 help-cracking                           vanilla milkshake
 Generic Wind-Up Toy
Michele is wearing clean but well-worn jeans, a faded Phish t-shirt and a comfortable old pair of Birkenstocks.
You say, "Did you change names, Michele?"
Alan (relaxed) returns to the ballroom.
Alan (relaxed) has arrived.
Looking underdressed, Killer timidly steps into the ballroom.
Killer has arrived.
whois killer
Killer's real name is "Stahl Stenslie".
Killer can be reached via email as:  stahl@khm.uni-koeln.DE
Killer says, "Sh...."
You say, "Killer, where's khm.uni-koeln?"
|>oug steps through the velvet curtain into the women's dressing room.
|>oug goes northwest.
Killer steps through the velvet curtain into the men's dressing room.
Killer goes northeast.
Alan says, "Denmark"
|>oug returns to the ballroom.
|>oug has arrived.
whois drave
Drave has no real name.


Alan (relaxed) orders gin & tonic
Lucy says "Ah!  A person of refined tastes."
northeast
You step through the velvet curtain into the men's dressing room.
Men's Dressing Room
The dressing room is a clutter of tuxedos, tail coats, cummerbunds, gloves, and hats from all eras.  Type 'search rack' to pick an outfit, and 'wear # from rack' to put it on!
Obvious exits: west to Ballroom Foyer and south to The Ballroom
You see Men's Clothing Rack and a gold plaque here.
Grey_Guest, Jeremias, Greg, Jade_Guest, Killer, and andru are here.
whois grey_guest
Grey_Guest has no real name.
Killer says, "well you've found me finally"
You say, "Yes, pas de probleme"
Killer slips into a large eyeball surmounted by a black top hat.
You hear the bips of keyclick, the sliding of mice and the hum of computers in the distance as andru fades slowly out of view, heading towards them.
Kid_Gloves steps through the velvet curtain into the dressing room.
Kid_Gloves has arrived.
The housekeeper arrives to cart Jeremias off to bed.
search rack
You search through the rack and find vibrant shiny fuschia suit-jacket with barbed-wire pleated pants and yellow silk tie ripped halfway down (Outfit #46) which would look fabulous on you.
Kid_Gloves slips into a green on orange double-breasted paisley dinner jacket.
Kid_Gloves goes west.
Killer says, "if you wanna know where I come from you have to come closer"
wear #46
I don't understand that.
There are the light bips of keyclick and the sliding of mice as andru fades into view, shoving himself away from the console, which promptly fades away.
wear #46 from rack
You slip into vibrant shiny fuschia suit-jacket with barbed-wire pleated pants and yellow silk tie ripped halfway down.
Teal_Guest steps through the velvet curtain into the dressing room.
Teal_Guest has arrived.
Teal_Guest searches through the Men's Clothing Rack.
look teal_guest
Guest is wearing neatly-pressed, teal business attire and looking alternatively amazed and lost.
It is awake and looks alert.
Killer says, "hey Greeny,what a look!"
You say, "Yezzum, ain't it nice? 2 layers of clothes! A disguise!"
Teal_Guest says, ""Teal, not green..."
You say, "I'm green, DOOD"
Orange_Guest steps through the velvet curtain into the dressing room.
Orange_Guest has arrived.
You say, "How was cyber land Orange?"
Killer says, "I'll go for the wild one"
Killer goes south.
You return to the ballroom.
Looking underdressed, Teal_Guest timidly steps into the ballroom.
Teal_Guest has arrived.
Killer says, "lucy, hand me that cheese of yours!"
You say, "I want some too"
Killer says, "make you deserve some"
You say, "OK. I'll bite..."
Killer says, "It's time for that wild stuff"
You say, "Yezzum"
Killer says, "Greeny, you do the tango with me!"
You say, "OK"
Killer says, "Where'"
Lucy sees the vanilla milkshake going untouched and comes to collect it.
You say, "Anywhere is fine"
Looking underdressed, Orange_Guest timidly steps into the ballroom.
Orange_Guest has arrived.
Killer says, ""
Teal_Guest says, "I beg your pardon?"
Killer says, "Finally it's time for the Blues"
You say, "south"
Gray_Guest pauses in the doorway of The Ballroom, gazing around the ballroom.
A voice announces, "Gray_Guest".
Gray_Guest has arrived.
Killer steps onto the dance floor.
Michele says, "try the dance floor--@dances shows some that are there..."
@dances
I don't understand that.
Alan (relaxed) returns to the ballroom.
Alan (relaxed) steps off the dance floor.
Orange_Guest steps into the foyer.
look gray_guest
Gray_Guest is wearing charcoal grey suit, athletically cut, with an aqua paisly tie.
You say, "Nice touch to your grey grey"
Looking underdressed, Teal_Guest timidly steps into the ballroom.
Teal_Guest has arrived.
Killer returns to the ballroom.
Killer steps off the dance floor.
You say, "Um, gray gray"
Alan looks puzzled.  "Green, you talking to me?"
You say, "Not that I know of. Do you want to talk?"
Alan shrugs.  "Just trying to figure out what gray/grey had to do with anything.


You say, "Gray_guest has a nice tie!"
Gray_Guest says, "thanks green!"
Killer says, "don't make me jealous"
You say, "De nada"
Alan looks nauseated.
You say, "Why nauseated Alan?"
Alan says, "Aqua paisley on grey?  Yecch!"
Teal_Guest steps onto the dance floor.
Kid_Gloves (feeling better) returns to the ballroom.
Kid_Gloves (feeling better) steps off the dance floor.
Plaid_Guest, emr, Michele, Gray_Guest, Alan (nauseated), Killer, and Kid_Gloves (feeling better) are here.
Kid_Gloves (feeling better) steps into the foyer.
Killer says, "leave him alone, hi's just a kid"
You say, "Who's a kid?"
Alan [to Killer]: "Who was that remark to?"
look kid_gloves
I see no "kid_gloves" here.
|>oug returns to the ballroom.
|>oug steps off the dance floor.


|>oug takes a wedge of cheese from the plate.
|>oug takes a hunk of cheese from the plate.
Looking underdressed, Teal_Guest timidly steps into the ballroom.
Teal_Guest steps off the dance floor.
"|>oug takes a pat of cheese from the plate.
|>oug takes a tidbit of cheese from the plate.
|>oug takes a fragment of cheese from the plate.
You say, "How is the cheese | >oug?"
Killer says, "gimme that bottle Lucy"
andru returns to the ballroom.
andru has arrived.
andru steps onto the dance floor.
Orange_Guest returns to the ballroom.
Orange_Guest has arrived.
whois andru
andru's real name is "Andrew Myers".
andru can be reached via email as:  andru@thor.lcs.mit.edu
|>oug says, "I haven't eaten it yet....  I'm a collector of cheese."
You say, "Wow"
You say, "I have some interesting cheese in my belly-button"
|>oug hands you pat of cheese.
Teal_Guest says, "Does anyone know how late this reception is going until?"
Orange_Guest says, "10pm"
take cheese
You already have that!
eat cheese
You eat your pat of cheese.
Teal_Guest says, ""Is Green ok?  Someone seems to have spiked the cheese..."
|>oug says, "Could I have some of that belly button cheese for my collection?""
You say, "Mmm- mmm I'm fine"
Teal_Guest says, "Probably even better than fine, yes?"
You say, "Well, you'd have to come to Albany for it..."
Orange_Guest takes a morsel of cheese from the plate.


Orange_Guest eats a morsel of cheese.
|>oug says, "I wonder if it would be a tidbit, a fragment, or a wedge?"
|>oug eats a wedge of cheese.
Orange_Guest says, "Hi Lucy"
whisper killer What's doing?
I don't understand that.
Orange_Guest steps through the velvet curtain into the women's dressing room.
Orange_Guest goes northwest.
|>oug takes a scrap of cheese from the plate.
|>oug takes a segment of cheese from the plate.
Killer says, "Lucy, gimmie another one"
|>oug takes a piece of cheese from the plate.
Gray_Guest steps onto the dance floor.
north
You step into the slightly brighter light of the foyer.
Cerulean_Guest and Jave are here.
whois jave
Jave has no real name.
look jave
A random janitor-ly type.
He is awake, but has been staring off into space for a minute.
north
You feel a tingling sensation and suddenly realize that you are no longer wearing vibrant shiny fuschia suit-jacket with barbed-wire pleated pants and yellow silk tie ripped halfway down.
Sixth-floor Atrium
You see an elevator call button here.
push call button
You push the button, which lights up.


enter
I don't understand that.
The elevator doors open.
enter
I don't understand that.
in
I don't understand that.
The elevator doors close.
push button
You push the button, which lights up.
The elevator doors open.
walk
I don't understand that.
The elevator doors close.
push button
You push the button, which lights up.
The elevator doors open.
elevator
You walk into the elevator.
elevator
You are inside the Media Lab elevator.  The walls are dull steel and the floor is grey rubber with raised circular bumps.  You see push buttons labeled LL, G, 2, 3, 4, Roof, and 6.  The floor indicator shows 6.  The elevator is stopped and the doors are open.
The doors close.
g
I don't understand that.
G
I don't understand that.
go G
You can't go that way (G).
G
I don't understand that.
3
I don't understand that.
elevator
I don't understand that.
push G
You push the button for G
The elevator begins to move down.
Roof
4
3
2
G
The elevator doors open.
out
You walk out of the elevator.
Ground-floor Lobby
You are standing in a large open space. The floor is dark grey, and the walls are covered with square off-white and pale grey tiles with colored pieces interspersed (seemingly randomly). As you look up, you realize that the second, third and fourth floors open onto this space. The ceiling is glass, with a grey framework right below the panes. There is a large stairway down to the Lower-level Lobby, as well as a door to the stairwell.
Obvious exits: stairs to Ground-floor Stairwell, up to Hovering in the atrium, elevator to elevator, and down to Lower-level Lobby
You see Sign of Incompletion and elevator call button here.
The elevator doors close.
look sign of incompletion
There appears to be some writing on the note ...
read note
I don't understand that.
read writing
I don't understand that.
read
I don't understand that.
read map
I don't understand that.
exit
I don't understand that.
up
You rise gracefully up into the air.
Hovering in the atrium
You stand in open air.  From here you have a fine view of the entire wall mural.  Looking down you see the ground floor lobby, and behind you is the railing of the balcony on the second floor.  High above you is the glass roof of the building.
Blimp is here.
look blimp
You see a silvery blimp about one meter long hovering in the air.  The shell is thin and shows signs of  having been carefully patched.  Two small red propellers make a faint, yet somehow cheerful noise.
It is sleeping.
Carrying:
 cellular phone
up
You can't go that way.
down
You gently float down to the lobby.
Ground-floor Lobby
home
You click your heels three times.
The LEGO Closet
It's dark in here, and there are little crunchy plastic things under your feet!  Groping around, you discover what feels like a doorknob on one wall.
Obvious exits: out to The E&L Garden
@end
I don't understand that.
@quit
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.




*




Guest exits to the north.
whereis gam-bit
Gam-Bit (#50235) is in Gam-Bit's (#52300).
FireHeart is on a chair actually.
Green_Guest says, "hi Vortex"
@go #52300
You begin to move into the room but encounter some resistance. With a snap you're catapulted back where you came from.
Either Vortex doesn't want to go, or Gam-Bit's didn't accept it.


You say, "Hi"
Green_Guest is chastened
At waffle's request, the housekeeper sneaks in, deposits a map of LambdaHouse and leaves.
look map
This is a map of part of LambdaHouse and the surrounding areas. Exits between rooms are shown, but keep in mind that some exits are one-way, and some, such as `enter', `up', and `down' aren't shown.  Also remember that, although this map is kept as accurate as possible, LambdaHouse is a volitile thing, always changing. Areas marked with `...' have exits to other areas you may wish to explore.
see map
I don't understand that.
show map
I don't understand that.
**
Green_Guest says, "hello ...anybody out there?"
You say, "Yoo-hoo"
Green_Guest thought everyone had gone
You say, "Nope"
Guest teleports in.
Green_Guest says, "where are you from then?"
You say, "Albany NY USA"
Guest thinks green is AT IT AGAIN....
You say, "Am I safe?"
Green_Guest boffs Guest over the head
Green_Guest says, "perfectly"
Shasta comes into view.
Look green_guest
By definition, guests appear nondescript.
This one has a slight greenish tint, however.
It is awake and looks alert.
Guest says, "not from green - she is a man eater"
Green_Guest says, "hi shasta"
FireHeart is still here but a bit busy as well...loading up for this evening.
look guest
By definition, Guest appears nondescript.
She is awake and looks alert.
Shasta wavers.
look shasta
Shasta
It is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 Shasta's-VCR


Green_Guest says, "loading what up"
whereis mineral
Mineral (#50669) is in The Idea of Switzerland (#53048).
@go #53048
The Idea of Switzerland
A quiet place. Shadows of streetcars move along the walls but otherwise it is gray and white and more or less empty.
Mineral is here.
You say, "Are you awake mineral"
look mineral
Gaunt, w/long sideburns, bellbottom corduroys, maroon suede boots, a T-Rex t-shirt and a fossil trilobite pendant.
He is sleeping.
Carrying:
 big pink eraser
@mail
2 messages:
   1:  Nov 22 11:11   Gam-Bit (#50235)       hello
>>>2:  Jan 16 16:19   Gam-Bit (#50235)       MOOmail
----+


@read
Message 2:
Date:     Sat Jan 16 16:19:01 1993 PST
From:     Gam-Bit (#50235)
To:       Vortex (#50457)
Subject:  MOOmail


 Dear Vortex,
 i got your message & dont write your message as your subject!


rebel (a.k.a. Monthy_Python, .(period), Rebel, Remy_LeBeau, NightCrawler, The_psychotic_android, Marvin)
--------------------------
@send
Usage:  @send <list-of-recipients>
        @send                      to continue with a previous draft
@send mineral
Subject:
[Type a line of input or `@abort' to abort the command.]
Visited The Idea Of Switzerland, You


Do a 'look' to get the list of commands, or 'help' for assistance.


Composing a letter to Mineral (#50669) entitled "Visited The Idea Of Switzerland, You"
RP:
I don't understand that.


Came to see you, must be sleeping, later I'll don a similar pendant, wildman, we'll go for a walk soon. Listening to B'water/Roky Erikson....Vortex
I don't understand that.
SEND
Mail actually sent to Mineral (#50669)


The Idea of Switzerland
Mineral is here.
You say, "MINERAL!"
west
Power Pop Heaven
A dark, smoky space smelling a little of old beer. You sense the presence of something dark and urgent and alkaline.
east
The Idea of Switzerland
east
You can't go that way.
north
You can't go that way.
south
You can't go that way.
west
Power Pop Heaven
north
You can't go that way.
south
You can't go that way.
west
You can't go that way.
exit
I don't understand that.
northwest
You can't go that way.
northeast
You can't go that way.
southeast
You can't go that way.
southwest
You can't go that way.
You say, "What's up?"
@go#23917
I don't understand that.
@go #23917
Event Lab
You see large numbers of smock-wearing scientist types entering and leaving various test rooms over and over.
You see Event Tester Class (asleep), Generic Event-Receiving Room, An Intel 80486 chip, Sniff, and Better Babbler here.
Zippy (dozing) is here.
north
Tavern Second Floor
     This is the second floor of the Looking Glass Tavern, where rooms are rented to steady customers on a long-term basis.  There are several doors on either side of the hallway, some marked vacant, many bearing room numbers and the names of the occupants.  The hallway extends back to the east, leading to what appears to be a less-used area.
     The spiral staircase leading to the first floor is at the west end of the hallway.
Contents:
  plaque titled Directory
  SIGN:  New Mailing List For Looking Glass Tavern
up
You can't go that way.
down
You climb down the spiral staircase to the bar of the Looking Glass Tavern.
Looking Glass Tavern Bar
     The bar of the Looking Glass Tavern is one vast, smooth expanse of primeval wood (from the primeval forest) against the north wall, polished to a high sheen by the never-ending efforts of a not-quite-human bartender.  Behind the bar is a mirror that doesn't appear to be reflecting the contents of the room accurately...
     Steps lead up, to the second floor and down, to the cellar.  A stack of cases of Old Frothing Slosh beer rest in the southwest corner.
You see center of the room, wurlitzer, behind the bar, drunken stupor, a long mirror that looks kind of hazy and doesn't quite reflect the contents of the room, a dart board, Laser Light Box, and Bert the Boojum here.
jabberwock is here.
look jabberwock
a tall blonde with an affection for wonderland
She is sleeping.
east
You can't go that way.
west
You can't go that way.
north
You can't go that way.
south
You can't go that way.
northeast
You can't go that way.
southeast
You can't go that way.
southwest
Yoshie's Assassin Guild
  The guild looks like an old fortress.  It has tall ivy covered walls that are patrolled by guards.  There is little light in the guild.  Most of it is coming from a bonfire in the center of the guild.  The fire illuminates about a twenty foot circle in the room.  The rest of the guild is obscured by shadows.  The moon can be seen overhead.  It has a hazy quality that fortells of bad weather in the future.  You have a feeling that you are being watched.  You occasionally see movements in the shadows.  You hear pleasant music coming from outside the walls.    As you look around the guild you notice what appears to be a book shelf on the eastern wall.  It is too dark too tell at a quick glance what books are there.  You can barely recognise the shape of a throne on the other side of the fire.  There is also a small chamberpot in the southeastern corner of the guild.   There are various tapestries hanging on the walls.
Yoshie (asleep) is sitting in the throne.
You see Thunder here.
You carefully slide the stone door back into place and enter the Guild.
look thunder
A beautiful wolf with a coat the color of thunder clouds. Every muscle in his body is ready to respond to any command given to him by his master. He appears to be a gentle and loving animal.
pat thunder
I don't understand that.
east
You can't go that way.
west
BardHome
You enter a place of soft lights and soothing music.  A warm fire glows in the hearth, giving a semblance of carefree life to the shadows, and seems to dance in time with the music.  On the mantel lies a golden harp, the symbol of the Spellsinger's Guild.  A fine Oriental rug lies in front of the fireplace.  Against one oak-paneled wall is a plush couch, and across from it is an antique rocking chair.  Behind the chair is a bookshelf, taking up the entire wall.  In one corner is a baby grand, and a harpsichord is in the other.  A chestnut cabinet is set near the door.  The air itself smells of burning cedar and pipe tobacco.  The entirety of the room beckons you to relax, and enjoy the everpresent and infinite beauty of the Heartsong.
An oaken door to the south leads back to the Spellsingers' Guild.
Daylight streams from the window to the west, above the couch.
Taliesin the Master Bard (dreaming of reality) is here.
look bookshelf
Made of sturdy pine, this bookshelf takes up half the wall opposite the couch.  A wide range of books adorn the shelves, from Tolkien to Azimov, but most seem to be songbooks or poetry.
A few titles catch your eye:  'Mists of Avalon' by Marion Zimmer Bradley, the Witch World series by Andre Norton, 'Greenmantle' by Charles de Lint, and 'Taliesin's Red Book of Spellsongs.'
add book
I don't understand that.
add
I don't understand that.
push bookshelf
I don't understand that.
push
I don't understand that.
look Taliesin
Taliesin the Master Bard
A redheaded man, standing 6'4", with a trim beard. He seems to have a shining wisdom glinting in his hazel eyes, behind the lenses of his wire-rims. He is carrying a lute, an ancient stringed instrument. Every so often, he runs his fingers over the strings, and blue sparks of magick fly up on the wings of the chords.  He proudly displays Taliesin's Official Helpful Person Badge.
He is sleeping.
Carrying:
 cloak (worn)                            backpack
 magickal lute                           Shillelagh
 suit of chainmail
@send
Usage:  @send <list-of-recipients>
        @send                      to continue with a previous draft
@send Taliesin
Subject:
[Type a line of input or `@abort' to abort the command.]
VORTEX CAME TO VISIT YOU
Mail Room


Do a 'look' to get the list of commands, or 'help' for assistance.


Composing a letter to Taliesin (#37114) entitled "VORTEX CAME TO VISIT YOU "
Mr. T, I came by, browsed, looks & smells good in here. When I figure out how to run the system a little better I'll get a flute & we can jam, OK? VORTEX SEND
I don't understand that.


SEND
Mail actually sent to Taliesin (#37114)
BardHome
exit
I don't understand that.
south
The Spellsingers' Guild
A large, auditorium-sized room, with many stools and chairs strewn about.  A wooden stage is to the south, with a podium.  The podium bears the crest of the Guild, a golden harp.  Below the crest are the words, "When the song sings the singer, a spell is revealed."  Behind the podium is a huge tapestry, depicting scenes of ancient tales and heroic deeds.  To the west are stained-glass windows, each bearing the golden harp.  Every so often, notes fill the air as a bard tunes an instrument.  Lanterns line the wall, giving a cheery glow to the entire room.  You can sense magick in the air.
To the east are double doors made of oak, which lead back to the Academy.  Another door to the north leads to the BardHome.
A sign on the wall reads:  "To become a Spellsinger, type 'TRAIN'."
A bronze plaque upon the wall holds the names of all the members of the Guild.  A large cedar cabinet stands in a corner.
TRAIN
You must be initiated by the Bovine Illuminati first.


look plaque
A plaque on the wall which holds the names and titles of all ordained bards.
look names
I couldn't find "names".
look titles
I couldn't find "titles".
help
Help is available on the following general topics:


introduction -- what's going on here and some basic commands
index -- index into the help system


players -- setting characteristics of yourself
movement -- moving yourself between rooms
communication -- communicating with other players
manipulation -- moving or using other objects
miscellaneous -- commands that don't fit anywhere else


building -- extending the MOO
programming -- writing code in the MOO programming language
editors -- editing text and code in the MOO


@pagelength -- what to do if lines scroll off your screen too fast
@linelength -- what to do if lines are truncated
tinymud -- a list of equivalences between MOO and TinyMUD concepts/commands


LambdaMOO -- the `theme' of LambdaMOO, what new building should be like
manners -- the commonly-accepted rules of behavior on this MUD
wizard-list -- current list of LambdaMOO wizards


Type 'help <topic>' for information on a particular topic.




You say, "hello"
whereis Bovine Illuminati
"Bovine" is not the name of any player.
"Illuminati" is not the name of any player.
east
You open the doors to the east, and walk down a flight of stairs to the Academy.
End of Corridor
The corridor ends here with a solid brick wall to the east, in which is set a dark oaken door emblazoned with a symbol of a golden harp. A huge lantern suspended from the ceiling provides better-than-average illumination. To the north is a very plain, wooden door.
Contents:
  Goodyear Blimp
north
Counselling Centre
Several concerned, supportive-looking people are continually answering telephones and talking to people about their problems. One appears to be rostered to instruct people in counselling.
A sign on the wall announces that members may enrol in the following courses here:
coun1 : A quick course in helping and understanding people.
coun3 : A more intensive counselling course.
coun5 : A crash course in understanding and being supportive.


north
You can't go that way.
south
End of Corridor
east
You open the door to the east, and walk up a flight of stairs to the Spellsinger's Guild.
east
You open the doors to the east, and walk down a flight of stairs to the Academy.
End of Corridor
east
You open the door to the east, and walk up a flight of stairs to the Spellsinger's Guild.
up
You can't go that way.
down
You can't go that way.
west
You can't go that way.
east
You open the doors to the east, and walk down a flight of stairs to the Academy.
End of Corridor
east
You open the door to the east, and walk up a flight of stairs to the Spellsinger's Guild.
The Spellsingers' Guild
east
You open the doors to the east, and walk down a flight of stairs to the Academy.
End of Corridor
west
Shadowy Corridor
west
Gloomy Corridor
west
Dark Corridor
west
How did you get back there?  You're not an initiate!  Teleport out and walk from the west.
You say, "no"
west
How did you get back there?  You're not an initiate!  Teleport out and walk from the west.
east
Gloomy Corridor
north
School of Deportment
The School of Deportment and Beauty exists to educate initiates in the art of looking their best. The walls are covered with before and after pictures of previous students.
A sign on the wall announces that members may enrol in the following courses here:
DB1 : Introduction to impressing people.
DB3 : A more intensive course in presenting yourself impressively.
DB5 : For prospective diplomats, gigolos and beauty pageant entrants.
south
Gloomy Corridor
south
You open the door and enter. The door closes behind you with a resounding clang of finality.
Cell
The tiny cell is completely bare. The floor is cold, bare stone, as are the unadorned walls. A candle in one corner provides enough light to see the burly guard leaning against a wall, waiting for someone to supervise.
A sign on the wall announces that members may enrol in the following courses here:
dep1 : Introductory bodily deprivation, for those requiring a modest reinforcement of willpower
dep3 : Intermediate bodily deprivation, an intensive course in self-control
dep5 : Advanced bodily deprivation, an intensive crash-course for those who wish to develop true wills of iron
whereis intensity
Intensity (#50242) is in The Body Bag (#25489).
@go #25489
Either Vortex doesn't want to go, or The Body Bag didn't accept it.
whereis seldon
Seldon (#50268) is in The Body Bag (#25489).
north
Gloomy Corridor
east
Shadowy Corridor
north
Gonzo's Amazing Hall of Magic
The room is a monument to glitter and bad taste. Juggling clubs and conjuring apparatus lie scattered all over the place and a white rabbit nibbles contentedly at a deck of cards. The once-great Gonzo is collapsed in one corner, half asleep. Despite his decline, he is eager to pass on his skills before he becomes incapable of doing so.
A sign on the wall announces that members may enroll in the following courses here:
sleight1 : A quick course in sleight of hand and deftness of touch.
sleight3 : A more intensive course.
sleight5 : A crash course for those to whom deftness of the hands is important.
south
Shadowy Corridor
The east-west corridor continues in both directions, with doors to the north and south. The occasional torch on the wall casts huge shadows along the floor and walls.
south
I don't understand that.
south
Private Investigation Agency
A seedy-looking private detective sprawls behind a desk. He looks too old to work in the field now, but he is obviously willing to impart his skills to others.
A sign on the wall announces that members may enrol in the following courses here:
for1 : Introductory forensics, for those wishing to become amateur sleuths.
for3 : Intermediate forensics, for those more serious about sleuthing.
for5 : Advanced  forensics, a must for all private investigators.
north
Shadowy Corridor
east
End of Corridor
east
You open the door to the east, and walk up a flight of stairs to the Spellsinger's Guild.
The Spellsingers' Guild
west
You can't go that way.
east
You open the doors to the east, and walk down a flight of stairs to the Academy.
south
You can't go that way.
north
Counselling Centre
south
End of Corridor
east
You open the door to the east, and walk up a flight of stairs to the Spellsinger's Guild.
down
You can't go that way.
up
You can't go that way.
east
You open the doors to the east, and walk down a flight of stairs to the Academy.
End of Corridor
east
You open the door to the east, and walk up a flight of stairs to the Spellsinger's Guild.
@whereis the Bovine Illuminati
"Bovine" is not the name of any player.
"Illuminati" is not the name of any player.


Crawfish (#52451) is in Crawfishes Underworld (#20820).
@go #20820
You begin to move into the room but encounter some resistance. With a snap you're catapulted back where you came from.
Either Vortex doesn't want to go, or Crawfishes Underworld didn't accept it.
north
BardHome
up
You can't go that way.
down
You can't go that way.
north
You can't go that way.
south
The Spellsingers' Guild
north
BardHome
east
You can't go that way.
west
You can't go that way.
southeast
You can't go that way.
southwest
You can't go that way.
northwest
You can't go that way.
northeast
You can't go that way.
west
You can't go that way.
listen
I don't understand that.
north
You can't go that way.
south
The Spellsingers' Guild
@home
I don't understand that.
home
You click your heels three times.
The Coat Closet
The closet is a dark, cramped space.  It appears to be very crowded in here; you keep bumping into what feels like coats, boots, and other people (apparently sleeping).  One useful thing that you've discovered in your bumbling about is a metal doorknob set at waist level into what might be a door.
west
You open the closet door and leave the darkness for the living room, closing the door behind you so as not to wake the sleeping people inside.
The Living Room
FireHeart (distracted), Zippy, Chaos, Venice, Xandu, and Hiro (having fun...) are here.
You see Chaosjack into the Metaverse.  There is a brief flash of light and then they are gone.


Hiro says, "oops..."
Zippy [to Hiro]: Oughta be a space after the name.
Zippy says, "Vortex."
Venice says, "you see typojack into the metaverse"
You say, "Up"
Zippy [to Vortex]: Which beach did you grow up on?
You say, "Thousands and thousands of beaches...""
Zippy giggles at Venice.
Hiro says, "ok!"
Chaos steps out from behind a flowing black cloak.
You see Xandujack into the Metaverse.  There is a brief flash of light and then they are gone.
Venice says, "Charmed, I'm sure."
Zippy [sings]: Because it makes me feel like I'm a man, when I put a spike into my vein.
Hiro picks up The Metaverse Terminal.
Hiro sinks into the floor.
Venice . o O ( termites )
Zippy nods solemnly.
You say, "Santa Cruz, Buzzards Bay, many others..."
Zippy nods Vortex.
look zippy
Zippy
Too good to be true.  He is wearing Zippy's Official Helpful Person Badge, but appears to be off duty.  He seems to have a transparent shield surrounding him, rendering him impervious to food fights.
He is awake and looks alert.
Zippy hasna been to Santa Cruz in a few years now, sigh.
You say, "I'm going in 11 days!"
Zippy [to Vortex]: Where are you now?
Chaos [to Zippy]: pffff
Venice . o O ( gnarly )
You say, "Chaos has been to Santa Cruz!"
Zippy [to Chaos]: ffffp
Chaos says, "i has not"
You say, "Vortex now located in Albany NY USA"
Zippy eeks.
Zippy [to Vortex]: My condolences.
A violent tornado with blue, gray, and black swirls in it arrives. The tornado settles, and reveals Xandu.
You say, "No, Albany's way cool""
Zippy oogs.
Zippy hasta find out when he's sposed to go into Seattle tonight, oog.
You say, "Where are you zippy & chaos"
Zippy <-- outside Seattle
You say, "CHAOS IS NOT DEAD!"
Venice says, "The gubanatorial mansion, the inclemency... if only there was a beach that wasn't frozen."
Zippy sips more Yergacheffe, yum.
You say, "CHAOS NEVER DIED!"


FireHeart says, "there's a very unfrozen beach five minutes away from here."
Chaos says, "CHAOS IS IN CANADA. TORONTO, CANADA."
You say, ""CHAOS NEVER LIVED!"
look fieheart
I see no "fieheart" here.
Venice says, "Garie and Era, Bondi and Palm Beach."
Zippy says, "Stuff's damn good.  Very rich, low acidity.  Incredible aroma."
Chaos eyes you warily.
Zippy aroma
FireHeart . o O ( HOSER!! )
look FireHeart
FireHeart
An enormous dragon. His fiery breath escapes from his mouth and nose. His eyes are blood red and his claws can cut through steel with ease. He is a creature of great strength, but also has a warm heart to match his breath.
He is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 greaves                                 staff named "terminator"
 vambraces                               katana named "slice"
 suit of chainmail                       Dragon's Lair
 leather jacket                          Booga's heart
 skull-cap
FireHeart wants some back bacon!
Chaos says, "Take off, eh!"
Zippy says, "It's one of the fullest-bodied of the African coffees, imo."
Chaos [to Zippy]: u aren't very humble
FireHeart says, "it was the year 2055 after a nuclear war..."
Venice peers at FireHeart - take a flying fuck at a rolling donut.
Zippy | He pages, "Take off, eh."


H   H  M   M  M   M  M   M
H   H  MM MM  MM MM  MM MM
HHHHH  M M M  M M M  M M M
H   H  M   M  M   M  M   M
H   H  M   M  M   M  M   M


From Xandu
You say, "MMM=-MMM"
Chaos Heh
Zippy peers at Venice.
FireHeart looks at venice and laughs.
Cockatoo squawks, "bubble gum dispenser"
Zippy [to Venice]: Where are you ?
Zippy -<SPACE>
You say, "Pez Dispenser..."
FireHeart notes venice sounds like a hose beast !
Zippy, for the second time today, narrows his eyes at FireHeart.
look
The Living Room
look Welcome Poster
A large, garish poster, plastered to the wall, it says WELCOME in large, friendly letters at the top.
read poster


                          ***************************
                          *  Welcome to LambdaMOO!  *
                          ***************************

                       Running Version 1.7 of LambdaMOO


Type `connect <character-name> <password>'     to connect to your character,
     `connect Guest'     to connect to a guest character,
     `create'            for information on how to get a character of your own,
     `@who'              just to see who's logged in right now, or
     `@quit'             to disconnect, either now or later.


For example, `connect Munchkin frebblebit' would connect to the character
`Munchkin' if `frebblebit' were the right password.


After you've connected, type
  `help'             for documentation.
  `help wizard-list' for a list of current wizards


Please email bug/crash reports (but NOT character-creation requests; see
`create' above) to lambda@parc.xerox.com.


(You finish reading.)
FireHeart says, "what's wron zippy? bad eyes?"
help wizard-list
Venice says, "FireBelly: Take a flying fuck at the moon."


ArchWizard:  Haakon           (a.k.a. Lambda)
Wizards:     ur-Rog           (a.k.a. Rog)
             Slartibartfast   (a.k.a. Ford)
             Geust            (a.k.a. Jan)
             Froxx            (a.k.a. Grump)
             Rincewind        (a.k.a. Gemba)
             Dukas            (a.k.a. Gary_Severn)
             Nosredna         (a.k.a. yduJ)


See `help wizards' for some more detail about what wizards actually do.


While wizards may on occasion be in a mood to answer questions about programming or to offer general help, there are plenty of other players around that are willing and able to do this.  Since there are currently 2596 players, the amount of time any given wizard can spend answering basic questions is necessarily limited, if not nonexistent --- don't take it personally.  You should feel free, though, to contact the wizards about potential bugs in the core verbs, problems or deficiencies in the help system, or other things that non-wizards can't help you with.


Tips:
       When paging, just page the question.  You don't need to start with "Can I ask you a question?"  (Answer:  you can and you just *did* --- this is an example of a real-life courtesy that actually becomes counterproductive when translated to the MOO; if one sees an actual question, it is possible to deal with it relatively quickly, whereas if the page is merely a "mind if I interrupt?", time is lost waiting for the actual question to appear).


       Keep in mind that the person you're paging may be idle or busy.


       When sending mail, if you send to *Wizards (or use the @gripe command) any of the wizards can respond or act on it.  Some matters, e.g., problems with the core routines and general policy questions where open discussion is warranted, are best sent to one of the public mailing lists, *Core-Issues or *Theme-Issues, where others can see them.


       When reporting a bug, you should be as specific as possible about what you did that triggered the bug.  Mentioning object numbers and actual verbnames is useful.  If you saw a traceback, try to include that if you can.
Zippy scribbles something on a piece of paper that seems to be labelled `first ones against the wall'.


There is a blinding flash of fire, and the smell of brimstone fills the air.  When the fire sizzles out a pile of gray ashes lie smoking on the floor.
FireHeart says, "boo hoo...take a flying fuck...that got stale after the first time you said it."
@end
I don't understand that.
ashes . o O ( Who's Venice? )


Venice [ItchyPalms]: the only hosebeast you would recognise, you couldn't - comes from shagging yourself in the dark.
ashes eyes FireHeart warily.


Zippy says, "ashes"
@quit
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.




*




Storm says, "Cable wavle! wheee"
Phylon says, "Unintelligent humans."
Phylon teleports out.
Cable [to Mack-the-Knife]: OK. Let me think of one!
Demian exits to the north.
HellHound exits to the north.
You say, "I love you Storm"
Storm [to Cable]: Hey, he's gone again, man.
brij haaaasta gooo
Storm peers at Vortex.
brij *HUGS* Booga (not paying much attention)!
brij *HUGS* Mack-the-Knife!
Mack-the-Knife [to brij]: Where are you off to?
brij <--veging
Cable [to Storm]: He's in Dav's room.
Storm says, "yeah .. what's he doing there?"
Cable says, "Wanna join him again?"
north
The Entrance Hall
Xandu is here.
north
You open the front door and walk outside.
Driveway
You carefully shut the door behind you.
north
You wander out toward the street.
Street in front of LambdaHouse
whereis demian
Demian (#50389) is in The Library (#1670).
Buddy waves to Vortex. "Hi! I haven't seen you for days!"
You say, "Really, you have never seen me..."
look buddy
A genial fellow, if a bit stupid. You can tell by that he'd really like to be your pal. As you look more closely at him, you notice he seems to be made of wood and metal. He's carrying a large sign with the letters 'I AW A RO80T' scrawled on it. A tear seems to be permanently painted on his cheek.
He is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
  buddy bag
  dime
Buddy smiles at Vortex.
Vortex smiles
@go #1670
The Library
The library is built in a style reminiscent of old English libraries: very stately, walls completely covered in neatly-arranged books, with a few very comfortable-looking chairs.  Each chair is equipped with a footstool, a small side-table and a reading lamp.  The carpet is very plush and padded.  All in all, the room has an old world kind of charm.
You see:
Tutorial                       Ownership Transfer Station
SSPC-Help                      Generic Hard-Core Porn Rag
HellHound                      List of Generic Parentables
Sony Watchman                  Hierarchy of player classes
Dusty Bookshelf                Generic Science Fiction Novel
Book of Baby Names             Note on Writing Letters to Moscow
Frand's Big Manual             Garin's Index to Popular Literature
Encyclopaedia Extract          yduJ's Guide to Weird Player Classes
Generic Bulletin Board         Schmoo-Morphing Do-It-Yourself Manual
Features Feature Object        Index to LambdaMOO Reference Materials
yduJ's MOO Lore Pamphle        a stack of Lambda MoosPaper back issues
The MOOTEX Manual, Version 1.0 (beta test)
Answers to Frequently-Asked MOO Programming Questions
a painting hanging on the wall between two of the bookcases
An ancient looking tome jutting curiously out of one of the bookshelves
Gary_Severn's Manual With Scratchy Documentation of Variable Comprehensibility
Demian is here.
look hierarchy of player classes
A listing of all player classes that are currently in use. For more information on classes, read yduJ's guide of weird player classes and the MoosPaper from 27 Sept 1992.
whereis demian
Demian (#50389) is in The Library (#1670).
@go #68531
Either Vortex doesn't want to go, or #68531 didn't accept it.
@go #53048
The Idea of Switzerland
Mineral is here.
Demian arrives with a great rush of wind, sets down, and folds his leathery wings back.
HellHound scampers out from behind a shadow and plops down beside Demian's feet.
Demian says, "hey vortex"
You say, "Yess..."
Demian says, "just bopping by"
Demian spreads his huge leathery wings, leaps into the air, and is gone in a flash!
You say, "me too. Mineral is a pal of mine from way back"
look HellHound
I see no "HellHound" here.
whereis hellhound
"hellhound" is not the name of any player.
whereis HellHound
"HellHound" is not the name of any player.
whereis demian
Demian (#50389) is in The Pits of Despair (#27930).
@go #27930
The Pits of Despair
The first thing you notice is the darkness, not pitch black. But dark...reddish dark. All around the walls are paintings of things you never imagined could really exist. There is a huge fireplace in one wall, which emits a low, red glow. However there are no flames, it seems the source of the heat is coming from somewhere deep inside the earth. There is a rack of potions, and a bookcase on one wall, and a huge crimson bed with a black velvet canopy around it. This is the home of Demian.
You see HellHound here.
Demian is here.
look HellHound
A cross between Marmaduke and Cujo. This is one wacky canine pal.
HellHound barks at Vortex.
Demian says, "hey do you know how i can get programmers bit"
Demian tries to kick HellHound.
HellHound jumps up and sinks its sharp teeth into Demian's butt.
You say, "No. I'm practically a rookie"
Demian says, "i want to make a present for somebody on the moo"
Demian says, "i can make the object, but i need the programmers bit"
You say, "Hmm. I don't even know how to pick items up, or build"
Demian says, "to make it do stuff"
You say, "I'd like to know too..."
Demian says, "well, @dig works for making rooms"
Demian says, "like my little home?"
You say, "Yes, a little dark, but cozy. "
Demian says, "im renovating a bit tonight"
You say, "O yeah?"
You say, "How do you feel about Satan?"
Demian says, "i think im going to make another room down in that pit"
Demian says, "satan......i am satan...hehehe"
You say, "Satan is my friend!"
Demian says, "i guess i was just in that kind of mood"
You say, "Ah ha!"
Demian says, "i might totally overhaul the room tonight"
You say, "I may go back to the idea of switzerland, but nice to meet you, we'll talk again!"
Demian says, "sure, youre always welcome"
You say, "OK, later --"
@go #53048
The Idea of Switzerland
Mineral is here.
@dig
Usage:  @dig <new-room-name>
    or  @dig <exit-description> to <new-room-name-or-old-room-object-number>


help @dig
Syntax:  @dig "<new-room-name>"
         @dig <exit-spec> to "<new-room-name>"
         @dig <exit-spec> to <old-room-object-number>


This is the basic building tool.  The first form of the command creates a new room with the given name.  The new room is not connected to anywhere else; it is floating in limbo.  The @dig command tells you its object number, though, so you can use the @move command to get there easily.


The second form of the command not only creates the room, but one or two exits linking your current location to (and possibly from) the new room.  An <exit-spec> has one of the following two forms:
        <names>
        <names>|<names>
where the first form is used when you only want to create one exit, from your current room to the new room, and the second form when you also want an exit back, from the new room to your current room.  In any case, the <names> piece is just a list of names for the exit, separated by commas; these are the names of the commands players can type to use the exit.  It is usually a good idea to include explicitly the standard abbreviations for direction names (e.g., 'n' for 'north', 'se' for 'southeast', etc.).  DO NOT put spaces in the names of exits; they are useless in MOO.


The third form of the command is just like the second form except that no new room is created; you instead specify by object number the other room to/from which the new exits will connect.


NOTE: You must own the room at one end or the other of the exits you create.  If you own both, everything is hunky-dorey.  If you own only one end, then after creating the exits you should write down their object numbers.  You must then get the owner of the other room to use @add-exit and @add-entrance to link your new exits to their room.


Examples:
    @dig "The Conservatory"
creates a new room named "The Conservatory" and prints out its object number.
    @dig north,n to "The North Pole"
creates a new room and also an exit linking the player's current location to the new room; players would say either 'north' or 'n' to get from here to the new room.  No way to get back from that room is created.
    @dig west,w|east,e,out to "The Department of Auto-Musicology"
creates a new room and two exits, one taking players from here to the new room (via the commands 'west' or 'w') and one taking them from the new room to here (via 'east', 'e', or 'out').
    @dig up,u to #7164
creates an exit leading from the player's current room to #7164, which must be an existing room.
whereis vortex
Vortex (#50457) is in The Idea of Switzerland (#53048).
@dig west, to "The Beach"
Object ownership quota exceeded
@quit
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.




*




@mail
brij
Sick and tired of using this space to give updates on the broken leg (mostly healed) brij decides that appearances don't matter.
E is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 Rose for Beatrice                       The Magic Pickle
 shrubbery                               Picture Postcard
 cloak                                   tuner
 Ticket to Tori Amos Concert             beanbag
3 messages:
   1:  Nov 22 11:11   Gam-Bit (#50235)       hello
>>>2:  Jan 16 16:19   Gam-Bit (#50235)       MOOmail
   3:+ Jan 24 04:22   Gam-Bit (#50235)       hmmm
----+
@read
Message 2:
Date:     Sat Jan 16 16:19:01 1993 PST
From:     Gam-Bit (#50235)
To:       Vortex (#50457)
Subject:  MOOmail


 Dear Vortex,
 i got your message & dont write your message as your subject!


rebel (a.k.a. Monthy_Python, .(period), Rebel, Remy_LeBeau, NightCrawler, The_psychotic_android, Marvin)
--------------------------
@next
Message 3:
Date:     Sun Jan 24 04:22:30 1993 PST
From:     Gam-Bit (#50235)
To:       Vortex (#50457)
Subject:  hmmm


 well you're at it again *DON'T* type every thing in the subject it is annoying type the subject and WRITE the letter!


Remy,
--------------------------
**
@look
I don't understand that.
look
The Coat Closet
west
You open the closet door and leave the darkness for the living room, closing the door behind you so as not to wake the sleeping people inside.
The Living Room
Jimmy_Buffet, Black_Francis, Leigh-Cheri, Dred, Yellow_Guest, Tamazipam, Fizban (The great), Steamed_Rhubarb_Fondue (looking tasty as usual), and Guest are here.
Fizban (The great) nods solemnly.
Black_Francis invites slacker to a game of Hide the Salam.
Dred is here wondering if life is worth .10.
Tamazipam asks, "where are you if no one is around ?"
Yellow_Guest is going to leave and go request her character, finally!
slacker says, "hi."
look bookcases
I see no "bookcases" here.
Black_Francis [to slacker]: Gewe?
Leigh-Cheri says, "yay for Elizabeth!!"
Tamazipam [to slacker]: hi
You say, "Yo Mistah Slack"
Fizban tries a fireball spell, when it suddenly backfires! Creating a huge cloud of smoke obscuring your vision of him, all you hear is OOPS!!. When it clears, he is gone, all that is left is a slowly falling feather.
Yellow_Guest waves good bye to everyone and kicks smurf in the butt on her way out
Yellow_Guest has disconnected.
The housekeeper arrives to remove Yellow_Guest.
Steamed_Rhubarb_Fondue licks Leigh-Cheri's earlobes.
Phylon teleports in.
Jimmy_Buffet says, "sex makes it all worth more than .10 Dred."
Black_Francis is jealous.
Tamazipam blushes
Tamazipam says, "for the hell of it"
Tamazipam quickly morphs into Dean_Moriarty.
Jimmy_Buffet smiles dreamily
Leigh-Cheri smiles
Phylon exits to the north.
Dred [to Jimmy_Buffet]: I hope sex is worth more thant $.10!
You say, "I think of Dean Moriarty...""
Dean_Moriarty chortles loudly
Black_Francis leaves. Big deal.
slacker gewes.
Steamed_Rhubarb_Fondue smiles.
Jimmy_Buffet [to Dred]: no way dude...its only good when given free.
Even the Deslacker says, "dean!"
Leigh-Cheri says, "is anybody left here?"
Dean_Moriarty [to Vortex]: gee thanks
Murray teleports in.
Steamed_Rhubarb_Fondue says, "I am!  I am!"
Steamed_Rhubarb_Fondue says, "But I'm not really paying mulch attention..."
You say, "Even the Dean moriarty we never found (in denver?)"
Leigh-Cheri shruggs
Jimmy_Buffet says, "changes in latitudes, changes in attitudes."
Dean_Moriarty asks, "hope they are pleasant thoughts ?"
Guest exits to the north.
You say, "In America when the sun goes down..."
Dean_Moriarty quickly morphs into Neal_Cassady.
Neal_Cassady [to Vortex]: is that better?
Markus comes out of the closet (so to speak...).
You say, "Yass, Yass, & I'm Alvah Goldberg"
Neal_Cassady says, "lost the pseudonym now..."
You feel suddenly and uncontrollably intimidated as Hester glides into your meek presence and cracks her whip.
Jimmy_Buffet says, "...ran into a chum with a bottle of rum and wound up drinking all night."
slacker says, "hi." to Neal_Cassady.
Dred waves to Hester.
Neal_Cassady says, "yup...speed all night speed all day"
Jimmy_Buffet says, "intimidated?"
Jimmy_Buffet falls down laughing.
Look hester
A deceptively innocent looking woman with proud bearing and a poiercing gaze. There seems to be a letter embroidered on the front of her gown and a whip at her belt. Not the kind of womand to be taken lightly. She is, however, looking rather sullen lately.
She is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 whip
Leigh-Cheri says, "by what?"
Hester waves to dred
Neal_Cassady . o O ( or whom )
Jimmy_Buffet says, "good times and riches and sons of a bitches, I've seen em all...."
You say, "A"
Leigh-Cheri says, "all this morphing has got me confuzzed"
Neal_Cassady [to Leigh-Cheri]: so am i !?!?!?
Jimmy_Buffet laughs...want a margarita Lay?
Jimmy_Buffet says, "woops...that's leigh..."
Neal_Cassady chuckles
Leigh-Cheri says, "ha ha ha ha ha, sure, ok"
Markus becomes a liquid mass and oozes through the floor
down
You can't go that way.
Leigh-Cheri gags at Markus
whereis gam-bit
Jimmy_Buffet has a pitcher full of that frozen concoction...makes laundry day all that much easier.
Gam-Bit (#50235) is in Gam-Bit's (#52300).
@go #52300
slacker bonks Neal_Cassady. Neal_Cassady says, "OIF!"
You begin to move into the room but encounter some resistance. With a snap you're catapulted back where you came from.
Either Vortex doesn't want to go, or Gam-Bit's didn't accept it.
Neal_Cassady has got to do some Chemistry stuff...:-(
Jimmy_Buffet says, "kinda blows that its ugly out...if not...beach action would have been inevitable."
Neal_Cassady says, "bye bye all"
Leigh-Cheri says, "i'm sure it does...not my preference for substances, though"
Steamed_Rhubarb_Fondue says, "bi!"
You say, "Bye Neal, see you in San Jose"
Neal_Cassady disappears in a puff of illogicality
Steamed_Rhubarb_Fondue says, "yeah, but yer just an addict..."
Leigh-Cheri says, "untrue!"
You sense that Neal_Cassady is looking for you in Davinci's Bar.
He pages, "yup, you’re on..."
look leigh-cheri
A sexpot princess, probably wearing a dress and combat boots. Leigh-Cheri is 19, romantically neurotic, an avid reader, occasional drug user, and always on the lookout for a good place to nap.
She is awake and looks alert.
Homeward ho!
Jimmy_Buffet says, "what is it youre addicted to?"
Leigh-Cheri smacks SRF
Steamed_Rhubarb_Fondue says, "better hide the axes from you..."
Steamed_Rhubarb_Fondue says, "The killer week!"
Steamed_Rhubarb_Fondue says, "er, weed!"
look steamed_rhubarb_fondue
Steamed_Rhubarb_Fondue has disconnected.
Leigh-Cheri has disconnected.
Steamed_Rhubarb_Fondue
He is tall, svelte, strangely handsome, and wearing fishnet stockings and a garter belt.
He is sleeping.
Carrying:
 Utility Belt                            a quarter
 Generic Zapper                          Magic Mushroom
 a quarter
Jimmy_Buffet says, "killer weed?"
The cockatoo wriggles out of the gag.
Cockatoo squawks, "And Doolittle..."
@quit
I don't understand that.
Hester has disconnected.
@quit
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.




*




thor% telnet lambda.parc.xerox.com 8888
Trying 13.2.116.36...
Connected to lambda.parc.xerox.com.
connect vortex omaly
*** Connected ***
The Coat Closet
Last connected Sun Jan 24 10:59:44 1993 PST from thor.albany.edu
There is new activity on the following lists:
    *smut                       486 new messages
Morlor opens the closet door and leaves, closing it behind himself.
**
Darklighter has connected.
whereis mineral
Mineral (#50669) is in The Idea of Switzerland (#53048).
@go #53048
The Idea of Switzerland
Mineral is here.


whereis gam-bit
Gam-Bit (#50235) is in Gam-Bit's (#52300).
home
You click your heels three times.
The Coat Closet
Darklighter opens the closet door and leaves, closing it behind himself.
west
You open the closet door and leave the darkness for the living room, closing the door behind you so as not to wake the sleeping people inside.
The Living Room
Purple_Guest, Tzu'lar, Eris (She's Actual Size), Shrapnel, Justy_Shadowhawke (alive and kicking), j.w.catch, Eclipse (mama told me not to come), Hiro (daydreaming) (jaw hurts...(a filling!) :), Scouser, Morlor, Rolf, Tobin, and Darklighter are here.
Rolf says, "VCRs are no problem but I have never bothered to figure out half the programming features on my CD player."
Tzu'lar says, "And where did the 'Rocket Scientist' as a measure of genius come from anyways ? Anyone want to count the number of screw-ups in the space program over the last 5 years ?"
Eris [to Sal]: OK, well, hrm... ask around and see if your VAX can send stuff via the ZXmodem protocol, and see if your terminal emulator can handle Zmodem.  Beyond that, I cannot really help you, seeing as I am not there.
Darklighter waves hello
Eris says, "AARgh./"
Eclipse sighs loudly.
Eclipse waves.
Eclipse goes home.
Justy_Shadowhawke waves
Darklighter wanders off into the kitchen.
Tzu'lar waves to Eclipse.
Scouser wanders off into the kitchen.
Tobin [to Tzu'lar]: how about the first 5 years???
You say, "S I M U L A C R U M""
Shrapnel says, "bye all catch ya."
Shrapnel goes home.
Tzu'lar [to Tobin]: OK, mabye, but lately... if there was a guy in the office who blew up the photocopier and paid $10,000 for a haircut, I'd say 'That guy is some rocket scientist'.
Eris greets Darklighter... or did she do that already?
Eris says, "Whoops."
Eris says, "He ain't here."
Eris feels stupid.
Tobin [to Tzu'lar]: must be a canadian thingy... havent heard it here...
You say, "look eris"
Rolf vanishes in a plainly-labelled puff of generic SMOKE.
Justy_Shadowhawke <- blew up the photocopier
Eris says, "look vortex :)"
Morlor disappears into The Ship of Fools.
Justy_Shadowhawke <- paid $40 for haircut
Justy_Shadowhawke <- Canadian thingie
look eris
Eris
The mythological (and Real) Eris stands before you.  Embodiment of Chaos and other good things.  Strikingly beautiful, but somehow a little ... well.. odd.  Perhaps it's the manic grin on her face or the golden apple by her side.  She proudly displays Eris's Official Helpful Person Badge.
She is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 a broom                          Eris's Comm
 Bozo Button                      Fnord
 Orbo                             Log
 Euphonium                        Nasty Looking Doll resembling Eclipse
 ErisOrb                          Technology
 The Kama Sutra                   Spam
 RCAcam                           The Golden Apple of Discord
 ErisVision
 A sign reading-- WARNING!! THESE ARE NOT THE RAMONES!
Sargeant Pepper disappears into The Ship of Fools.
Tobin [to Justy_Shadowhawke]: just a haircut???
Tzu'lar hehs. "Well, $40 isn't $10,000 and blowing up a photocopier is pretty tricky."
Guildenstern comes out of the closet (so to speak...).
Guildenstern says, "Hello"
Tzu'lar says, "There was just a really good column in Spy about it once... very funny."
Justy_Shadowhawke [to Tobin]: Hey! It was by one of the best hairstylists in Vancouver!
Justy_Shadowhawke <- woman of many talents
Tobin [to Justy_Shadowhawke]: okay... not that bad then...
Eris doesn't get haircuts.  Her hair stays mythologically at whatever length she chooses. :)
Justy_Shadowhawke [to Guildenstern]: Hi!
Eris greets Guildenstern.
Justy_Shadowhawke gets damn fine haircuts.
You say, "Eris where do you live?"
Guildenstern waves
Tzu'lar says, "Good Guildenstern. Fair Rozencrantz."
The cuckoo clock begins making a small whirring noise.
>> Cuckoo! <<
You hear a small click coming from the cuckoo clock.
Justy_Shadowhawke [to Tzu'lar]: Guess what hair colour I have?
Justy_Shadowhawke says, "Poor hamlet"
Guildenstern says, "Who me?"
You say, "Henna"
Eris says, "My temporal projection into your version of space-time is roughly somewhere in Ohio."
Tobin waves to Guildenstern...
Tzu'lar [to Justy_Shadowhawke]: Dod you change it ? Hmmm... hot pink ?
Guildenstern says, "Has anyone seen Hamlet?"
Homeward ho!
Justy_Shadowhawke says, "Last I saw of him he was decomposing in Denmark"
You say, "AH Ohio, ours is along the Hudson River"
Moonripple teleports The Ship of Fools out.
Tzu'lar laughs.
Eris [to Vortex]: Ahhh.. New York?  Or is my sense of geography still stuck in ancient Greece?
Guildenstern says, "How terrible!  I'd better be off."
Guildenstern has disconnected.
Tzu'lar says, "Yep, he's #49689."
Tobin [to Justy_Shadowhawke]: hey have you seen rosencrantz & guildenstern are dead???
Justy_Shadowhawke [to Tobin]: YES!
Tzu'lar has.
Justy_Shadowhawke [to Tobin]: damn fine film
Eris has not, unfortunately.
Cockatoo squawks, "Er, no, Shrapnel.  Not really."
You say, "Albany, NY"
Justy_Shadowhawke [to Tobin]: I'm seeing guess what film on February 1st?
Eris says, "Ahh good.  How is Albany?"
Tobin loved that movie... and never saw hamlet b4 either...
Cockatoo squawks, "[to Moonripple]: Cool I work again Thur night."
Charles appears from another reality
Tobin [to Justy_Shadowhawke]: ummm highway 61??
Eris greets Charles.
Justy_Shadowhawke waves to Charles
Tzu'lar . o O ( again )
You say, "It is cold, postmodern abyss. People want to talk about music rather than play it..."
DING! DING! DING!
Charles says, "Hello one and all"
Confetti falls all over Tobin
Tobin greets Charles...
Eris plays and talks.  "What is your favorite mode of music, Vortex?"
A duck falls from the ceiling toward Tobin. "You said the Secret Word!"
Charles says, "My Dream Analysis Expert System works YAY."
Tobin [to Justy_Shadowhawke]: i like that...
Justy_Shadowhawke curtseys nicely.
You say, "I play in an experimental improvisation group called thelemonade"
Moonripple teleports The Ship of Fools in.
You say, "Flute"
Justy_Shadowhawke says, "Hooray for Captain Spalding, hooray hooray hooray"
Bloaf slowly fades into view.
Sargeant Pepper appears after exiting The Ship of Fools.
Bloaf waves.
Justy_Shadowhawke says, "Now back for more fun and games at Continuing Studies"
Tobin waves to Bloaf...
Justy_Shadowhawke waves merrily to Bloaf
Eris says, "Wow, sounds interesting.  My incarnation here at Miami is occasionally in a very tongue-in-cheek a capella thrash band called 'Two Lesbians from Wichitaw'"
Charles has disconnected.
Justy_Shadowhawke marmalades her toast with something of a flourish and swallows her martini (sans testosterone).
Tzu'lar says, "ooh ooh ooh Have fun Justy."
You say, "I'm almost in tears to speak your right language!"
Eris says, "There are three of us, and none of us are lesbians, nor have we ever been to Kansas."
Justy_Shadowhawke [to Tzu'lar]: I always do ;)
Hiro E/R,tK2-f*!9&O=UQjX)C?yf{o[{{?9j7?6a*N[n]/zo^"{ud"{a?IZ"3#(1BA*E!qfpq|s;l~WkymvH.ic[rS/j?kzT:
Hiro <- Th!qW%|F~%p.RY'66e|m1
Hiro .edG;7
Eris waves goodbye to Justy.
Justy_Shadowhawke says, "BYE!"
Sargeant Pepper disappears into The Ship of Fools.
Bloaf thinks he might have to do some horrible thing..like..WORK! Ewwww.
Justy_Shadowhawke twitches her's nose.  Angels carrying a fluffy cloud appear and wait as Justy_Shadowhawke boards the cloud.  Then with a heralding trumpet blast, they all go up to the Boudoir.
Eris didn't see Bloaf.  "Hello, Bloaf."
Tobin seen kansas... your not missing anything Eris...
Bloaf bloafs.
Hiro has disconnected.
Look bloaf
Bloaf
A furry green wombat with purple eyes. He likes to carry archways around.
He is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 generic listening object                Bloaf's Furry Wombat Features Object
 generic name corrector                  Da Biggest Gun in All da MOO!
 banner maker                            52 Pound Sack o' Palindromes
 $bloaf_utils
 Listening Kinda Player Thing Whose Verbs Belong On $player (asleep)
Eris grins at Tobin.
Moonripple teleports The Ship of Fools out.
Eris must go now.  "Goodbye, all."
Eris bows out gracefully, whistling...
Bloaf waves.
Eris goes home.
Bloaf says, "Scrabble anyone?"
You say, "bye, check you later"
The housekeeper arrives to cart Guildenstern off to bed.
Tobin holds up a sign which reads: "scrabble!"
Tobin settles into a louts position and disappears with a pop.
home
You click your heels three times.
The Coat Closet
@quit
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.




*




Yellow_Guest has connected.
west
You hear a quiet popping sound; Teal_Guest has disconnected.
You open the closet door and leave the darkness for the living room, closing the door behind you so as not to wake the sleeping people inside.
The Living Room
Guest, Blue_Guest, Red_Guest, and Lemon_Curry are here.
Red_Guest says, "who are you here ?"
You say, "Reptilicus, of Albany, to you"
Lemon_Curry [to Red_Guest]: ????
Red_Guest says, "?"
Red_Guest says, "I am Devin!"
Red_Guest bows
You say, "Not Devin in Santa Cruz--"
Red_Guest says, "can you direct me to a director?"
Red_Guest says, "nope, I am In Clevealandeland"
You say, "Damn, poor person"
Red_Guest says, "lag is horrible here, where is this place ?"
You say, "Califas, I think"
Red_Guest poked you
You say, "Ow"
Red_Guest says, "wot are commands here  ?"
Red_Guest says, "to get help /"
Red_Guest says, "?"
Lemon_Curry [to Red_Guest]: Type 'help';
You say, "type help, or @help. I theeek"
Lemon_Curry [to Vortex]: Have a cold?
Red_Guest says, "who is Castle  ?"
Purple_Guest comes out of the closet (so to speak...).
Lemon_Curry [to Red_Guest]: No one is named castle.
You say, "No, but it's butt cold outside. Upstate Nueva York"
Red_Guest pokes Castle who feels somewhat hurt.
Lestat teleports in.
Lestat slides open the glass door to the deck and slips out, sliding it closed behind him.
Red_Guest says, "hello"
You say, "Guillotine"
Red_Guest says, "Huh?"
Lemon_Curry heads back into the closet, perhaps for a long rest.
Purple_Guest has disconnected.
The housekeeper arrives to remove Purple_Guest.
You say, "I'm listening to the Shaggs. Great band."
The fabric of Space itself is torn; from the Black Void without, a huge scaly hand with talons like scimitars gently deposits Euphistopheles from its sofa-sized palm.
Red_Guest says, "ok k then"
Red_Guest says, "yeah, hehe"
Euphistopheles bows
Euphistopheles exits to the north.
Red_Guest says, "hehehe"
You say, "Every sha-la-la-la"
Red_Guest says, "you"lateZ"
Leigh-Cheri teleports in.
Red_Guest has disconnected.
The housekeeper arrives to remove Red_Guest.
You say, "Yo L-C"
Leigh-Cheri says, "yes, hello to all..."
You say, "Are you in Ohio?"
Leigh-Cheri says, "yep, about 45 miles out of cinci"
You say, "Miami?"
Leigh-Cheri says, "sure yeah...."
You say, "You know eris?"
The sounds of a grand piano begin drifting through the wall.  the sound grows, crescendoing in a mighty roar...until...until...Lemon_Curry and his Steinway Grande plop into the center of the room with a (tasteful) crash.
Leigh-Cheri says, "yeah...where & who are you?"
Lemon_Curry bows gracefully to Leigh-Cheri.
Lemon_Curry bows gracefully to you.
Leigh-Cheri smiles to lemon curry
You say, "Albany NY -- "
Leigh-Cheri says, "yeah, there's a lot of people on the moo from miami.."
Lestat teleports in.
Lestat exits to the north.
You say, "Moo. Moo. Cow!"
Thin black ribbons of emptiness snake into the room, spiralling upwards and eventually knotting into the form of Morpheus.
Leigh-Cheri rolls her eyes...
Morpheus waves. "Hello."
Leigh-Cheri says, "hello to you morpheus..."
You say, "Weird stories about Miami. I know many unrelated friends who went there"
You say, "MORPHEUS WE LOVE YOU"
look morpheus
Morpheus (in love with Tesla Girls)
Although slightly taller than average, he is of a normal build, and slouches almost nonchalantly. He's wearing faded denim jeans and an equally faded blue, long sleeve shirt. Over the shirt is his prize possession, a black suit jacket, well worn, roughly one size too large. His face is nondescript, but his expression is one of extreme melancholia. Deep set eyes burn darkly: nothing misses his attention for long. His hair is dark black and slightly tussled, contrasting greatly with his pale skin. Looking at him now you are reminded of something you read a long time ago : "Beware! Beware! His flashing eyes, his floating hair... Weave a circle 'round him thrice and close thine eyes with holy dread, for he on honey dew has fed, and drunk the milk of paradise..." Apart from the dark hair and the pale skin, he bears no resemblance to Gaiman's Morpheus, and resents any such comparisons. His realm is dreams as well, but he merely lives there, and his control over it is very limited. Tied loosely around his head and almost obscured by his fringe is a headband with "Never descend to the ways of those above you" written in colourful red script.  He seems to have a transparent shield surrounding him, rendering him impervious to food fights. A small, black, analogue wristwatch is strapped to his left arm, showing that he believes the time to be 12:28pm.
He notices you looking at him, nods and whispers, "Hello, Vortex."
He is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 backpack                                Object #11555
 $52 gold pieces                         Object #3093
 tarot reader                            Object #21472
Morpheus laughs.
Morpheus says, "Thanks."
Leigh-Cheri says, "what kinda wierd stories?"
Lemon_Curry goes home.
Stargazer teleports in.
With a brilliant flash of light and a slurping pop, like the one made by an overzealous plunger, Ben_Wymore appears
Stargazer exits to the north.
Harold !!!! POP !!!!
Ben_Wymore says, "ANY OF YA'AL LIKE TRIVIA?"
The cuckoo clock begins making a small whirring noise.
 >> Cuckoo! <<
You hear a small click coming from the cuckoo clock.
You say, "A friends dad is/was a dean there. She was trouble, mingled with profs, found drunk passed out in the woods. Also mescaline friends, & some good graphic artists"
Morpheus whispers, "Why the adoration?"
Stargazer teleports in.
You say, "Why not, Mr M"
Stargazer exits to the north.
Ben_Wymore exits to the north.
Leigh-Cheri says, "i'm on the 'hippie stoner' section of campus (the architects are here too)"
You say, "I'm on that section of LIFE!"
With a brilliant flash of light and a slurping pop, like the one made by an overzealous plunger, Ben_Wymore appears
Leigh-Cheri laughs...
You say, "Heading to Santa Cruz in 6 days"
Ben_Wymore says, "Thought I'd let all of you know that there will be a 50 hour trivia contest going on here at my school, and that I will be typing in the questions so that MOOers can play along.  Anyone interested?"
Leigh-Cheri says, "no way, ben"**
You say, "No, thanks. But I'd like to go to Miami"
Morpheus says, "No thanks, Ben."
Leigh-Cheri says, "why's that vortex?"
You are temporarally blinded by a bright flash of irradescent blue light as Riker appears before you and waves in a friendly jesture.
Ben_Wymore says, "You guys are noooo fun.  Its cool, like really obscure questions, not this silly trivial persuit stuff."
You say, "O, um...because I've never been there..."
Riker quickly morphs into Vampire_Lestat.
Vampire_Lestat waves to all
Morpheus waves to Lestat. "Can I have your autograph...I have your album."
Leigh-Cheri says, "i'll give you the grand tour of miami...some grass, some trees, some red brick buildings...western campus (where i am). that's all..."
Leigh-Cheri says, "you're goofy, riker..."
look Vampire_Lestat
Vampire_Lestat
yes he is donning his Uniform
He is awake and looks alert.
Vampire_Lestat obliges..


Ben_Wymore says, "STTNG new episode on in 20 minutes for you wisconsin viewers...."
Vampire_Lestat quickly morphs into Steamed_Rhubarb_Fondue_Impersonator.
You say, "Well L-C, thanks for the tour. See you another time--time to go--"
Steamed_Rhubarb_Fondue_Impersonator says, "yeah......"
Phylon teleports in.
Phylon arghs, and waves
Leigh-Cheri waves to vortex
Steamed_Rhubarb_Fondue_Impersonator quickly morphs into Vampire_Lestat.
You say, "Bi"
Leigh-Cheri smiles warmly to phylon
Phylon says, "Oh my god. Becky look at her butt. It is so big. She looks like wanna those rap guys girlfriends.. "
Phylon grins.
Leigh-Cheri thanks lestat...
look phylon
Phylon
You see a young mage, about 15 years of age. He is nearly 6 foot tall. His hazel eyes look inviting, and they sparkle as you look into them. He looks handsome, intelligent, and kind. (He IS single.). He is a new member to this kingdom. He carries a wooden staff, atop of which a magic blue orb sits. It glows imminently.
He is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 Soda for Eclipse                        Phy's Radio
Vampire_Lestat waves. No problem.....
Phylon looks at Leigh-Cheri, half-stared and half-held in that position, and then turns away..
Leigh-Cheri looks at her butt, takes phylon too personally...
home
You click your heels three times.
The Coat Closet
@quit
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.




*




I.


The Bullet Train barrels in and comes to a screeching halt.
northwest
You go stand in line for a while, and eventually make it up to the door. A bouncer checks your id, and looks at you. He hmmms, and says "Alright, go on".
Club Dred
     This nightclub appears to be the new in-spot. Like all nightclubs, it is dimly lit, and very loud. Music and noise from all the conversation around is frankly deafening. But one might manage to find a more quiet corner to gather and talk, if one can find a way through the crowd!
     Immediately after walking in, you notice the coat check to the right, and the girl behind the counter. Beyond, the club appears to be just the right size, not too big to seem impersonal, and not too cramped either. There is a long, crowded bar along the left wall, extending and turning the corner to continue along the back wall.
     The walls of the club are rough stone blocks, in keeping with the castle decor of the place. The floor around the tables and entrance is covered with plush black carpet, and the dance floor is polished oak. Above the bar is a balcony where the DJ booth is, and where the special guests can lounge. There is a spiral staircase in the back corner. There is a narrow staircase leading down behind the coatcheck counter. A dimly lit hallway leads to the west. The entrance to the club lies southeast, where the bouncers hang out.
There is a sign here, just inside the door, begging to be looked at...
You see Abigail and Gothic Dave here.
Mole (distracted) is here.
After the bouncer, you meet a man who demands a $5 cover charge. You sheepishly pay, and enter. He stamps your hand.
You say, "Can't I get in here with just my good looks?"


The DJ decides to go metal! He makes a smooth transition from Lush into a song by Boltthrower.
Mole [to Vortex]: hello
Mole goes home.
You say, "Who are you?"
Some guy jumps up on a table and drops his pants, mooning the entire club. But he jumps down and disappears before the bouncers can find him.
southeast
You decide that you have had enough partying for tonight, and head on out.
The Corner of Main Street and Queens Boulevard
This is the corner of Main Street and Queens Boulevard. It seems that more thing could be built to the east, although until then, a roadblock has been set up. Main Street runs north and south and Queens Boulevard runs off to the west.
Some of the empty buildings have a small notice posted on them.
Electrical cables run from corner to corner of the intersection and traffic lights hang from the cable. To the northwest you can see a large castle-like building with a large neon sign reading: "Club Dred". A long line of people wait to get in.
Far above, you see, greatly magnified, Guest Room containing Wind-Up Duck.
The bouncers remind you as you leave: "Your stamp is only good for tonight!"
up
You can't go that way.
east
You can't go that way.
north
Main Street
A short north-south street, filled with houses, buildings, trees. They all look uneasily flimsy, as if they were only facades, or made out of poorly-described plastic. To the west, there is a large power station, apparently full of transformers for the train set. To the east, you see a small shanty. Despite its appearance, the scent of cloves wafting from its doorway intrigues you. The street corner to the south seems a little more real.
Far above, you see, greatly magnified, Guest Room containing Wind-Up Duck.
up
You can't go that way.
north
Main Street Station
A large open-air train station. There are buildings, houses, trees, and other kinds of tiny scenery all around. An east-west train track is in front of you; the station exit is to the south.
You see TinyScenery Express Schedule here.
Far above, you see, greatly magnified, Guest Room containing Wind-Up Duck.
north
You can't go that way.
east
You can't go that way.
west
You can't go that way.
north
You can't go that way.
northeast
You can't go that way.
northwest
You can't go that way.
south
Main Street
east
You can't go that way.
west
Power switching station
This is a power switching station for local businesses and homes. Ultra-super-duper-wowie-zowie-this-is-all-too-intense-high-voltage lines enter on one end, and regular-plain-old-ordinary-common-boring-220-volt lines leave for the transformers at the other. In between is the exciting part! Coils, spark gaps, transformers a mile high, and sizzling, squirming cables are everywhere! The humming, crackling, and buzzing of electricity is positively exhilarating! An industrial-strength fireproof lead-laden door offers the only exit, to the east.
east
Main Street
south
The Corner of Main Street and Queens Boulevard
south
South Main Street
This is the current end of a short north-south street. To the north you can see an intersection and, beyond that, Main Street Station. Buildings line the street and a roadblock bars further passage south. You see a large, gothic style library sitting to the east.  There are gargoyles sitting out front, and if you look closely at the gargoyles, you can see them holding golden apples with the letter 'K' inscribed on them.
Far above, you see, greatly magnified, Guest Room containing Wind-Up Duck.
east
You look at the majestic library, and decide that that is where you want to go.
Mole's Library
A library under construction.
A huge gothic style library with mountains and mountains of books, most of which are inaccessible for some reason or another.
There are pedestals set up with golden monitors, oscilliscopes, and various other instruments of science and technology.
There is a shrine to the goddess Eris, and the phrase 'All hail Eris' is proudly proclaimed on a banner stretching across the library.
The windows are all stained glass, some with formulas such as E=mc^2 and such written on them, some with cabalistic symbols written on them.
There is a beautifully ornate golden bird cage in center of the library.
Sitting at a table is a chemistry student named Kris who has apparently passed out after hours and hours of tedious studying.
Blue Canary is sitting in the Bird Cage.
You see The Orange Incident, Orangutan Librarian, and Kris here.
As you walk into the library, the gargoyles give you a friendly 'Hello, sailor,' and a wink.
You say, "Is eris around?"
look kris
A chem student who shouldn't have taken Analytical Chemistry when his roommate warned him not to.  If you poke him, you might get som gem of chemistry wisdom or something of the sort from him.  As it is, he is asleep.
look the orange incident
An autographed leatherbound book by Mole.  The story inside is based on a true story, and Mole has the transcripts to prove it.
The author neither intends any malice by this story nor has any towards any character in the book.
Blue Canary says, "Hey, Mr. DJ, I thought you said we had a deal."
You say, "Is there anybody in there??"
whereis eris
Eris (#24929) is in The Living Room (#17).
@go #17
The Living Room
Blondie, Silicon, Plaid_Guest, Mephisto, Xandu, evangeline, Sadric (tm), and Eris (She's Actual Size) are here.
Silicon [to Mephisto]: I wonder if it's older vms versions that don't support it?
You say, "Eris!"
Eris says, "Vortex!"
Eris grins sillilly.
Eris wonders if "sillilly" is a real word.


You say, "I was just at your shrine"
Eris says, "Where is that?"
Mephisto [to Silicon]: could be, there's is an old version...they’re upgrading to unix in the next week
You say, "near club dred"
Plaid_Guest says, "Sillily is a word, not sillilly""
Silicon [to Mephisto]: I wish we would run unix here..
Eris says, "Izzat so?  I don't know of it.  Do you know who owns it?"
The cuckoo clock begins making a small whirring noise.
>> Cuckoo! <<
You hear a small click coming from the cuckoo clock.
Mephisto says, "we run unix here"
Sadric wonders if anyone here is calling from ccsua.ctstateu.edu since the name came up…
You say, "No, stumbled upon it by accident. Wanna Go?"
Eris says, "Please!"
Silicon is
Sadric hmms.
Eris grins.
Whereis club dred
ClubKid (#50227) is in ClubKid's room (#11296).
Dred (#49925) is in Note Editor (#5599).
**
Sadric says, "That makes three I know from that sight."
Plaid_Guest looks bewildered
Silicon says, "I'm not actually there, however."
Mephisto [to Silicon]: did you try me at redskins
Plaid_Guest does the goat dance from Dragnet


Eris hmms.  Her incarnation's university's team is called the redskins...
You say, "I'm trying to find it again, hold on..."
Eris dances with Plaid_Guest.  "That was a keen dance."
A huge ripe banana materializes, unzips, revealing Dean_Moriarty
Plaid_Guest smiles at Eris and nods approvingly
Eris waits for Vortex.
Dean_Moriarty waves hi everybody.
@go club dred
There's no such place known.
@go main st
There's no such place known.
Silicon ev4rybody's
Plaid_Guest waves back.
Eris greets Dean.
Dean_Moriarty says, "oops everybody"
Sadric <- ev4body
Plaid_Guest smiles patiently
Blondie says, "Hello Dean Moriarty"
help whereis
Syntax:  whereis [<player> [<player>...]]
        @whereis [<player> [<player>...]]


Returns the current location of each of the specified players, or of all players if not arguments given.
Mephisto nods to Dean_Moriarty.
Silicon ev4dy's
Plaid_Guest says, "where do you keep taking off to Blondie"
help @go
  @move <obj> to <location>  - teleport an object to a given location
  @go <location>             - teleport yourself to a given location
  @join <player>             - teleport yourself to a player's location


You can teleport an object (if it allows this) to any location that will accept it. For example, `@move rock to #11' will teleport the rock to the closet. `@move #123 to here' will move object #123 to your location. `@go home' will teleport you home. `@join yduj' will teleport you to yduJ's location. You can also teleport an object to #-1, which is nowhere.


See help teleport-messages for information on customizing the text that appears (both to you and to others in the vicinity) when you teleport.
See also help @rooms for information on naming rooms for convenient movement.
If @move doesn't work and you own the place where the object is located, try using @eject instead.
Dean_Moriarty says, "help I can’t type in the dark..."
Blondie says, "I haven't gone anywhere."
Silicon says, "try a light"
@room
I don't understand that.
@rooms
Living(#17)
Plaid_Guest says, "You were quiet for a long time"
help@ rooms
evangeline wonders if she should smoke.
Dean_Moriarty has disconnected.
I don't understand that.
Blondie says, "Not much to say, I guess."
help @rooms
When you aren't in the same room with an object, you have to refer to it by number. When teleporting, that means you usually have to give your destination as a number. To avoid this, Frand's player class provides a way for you to store a database of rooms by name. If the library is in your list of rooms, you can just '@go library' to teleport there. Or '@move book to lib' to teleport an object there.


  @rooms                     - see a list of the rooms you know by name
  @addr*oom <name> <number>  - remember a room by name
  @rmr*oom  <name>           - forget about a room's name


For example, to add the kitchen to your database of rooms, type '@addr Kitchen #24'. To remove it, type '@rmr kitchen'.
Silicon says, "it's a miracle of our modern age, we have these electrical gizmo's that actualy shine light all around it."
Plaid_Guest gags at the idea of smoking
Dean_Moriarty has connected.
Plaid_Guest says, "I understand"
Eris says, "Wow, Silicon.  Amazing."
Mephisto rolls evangeline into a huge joint and smokes it.
evangeline decided not to.
Mephisto smiles at evangeline.
@rooms
Living(#17)


Dean_Moriarty asks, "can i have a toke Mephisto ?"
Plaid_Guest says, "Good job evangeline"
Silicon tokes up
A worm hole suddenly appears.  Quantum-Vacuum steps into to-room as the hole collapses.
Eris says, "Vortex, found the shrine?"
Quantum-Vacuum waves
Plaid_Guest pukes because of the smoke
Xandu prefers bowl'n it...
Eris greets Quantum-Vacuum.
Dean_Moriarty says, "I have a place for this...its called The Shrine."
You say, "No. Not yet. Can't find # of club dred"
Silicon pretends to be a shriner
Quantum-Vacuum says, "Finally a lag you can live with!"
Eris can find the number for club dred... hold on.
Plaid_Guest thinks silicon makes a funny looking shriner
evangeline says, "#50590."
Eris says, "#50590."
Plaid_Guest says, "yeh its gotten a lot better"
Dean_Moriarty asks, "whose shrine are we talking about ?"
You say, "let's go there"
Guest comes out of the closet (so to speak...).


The cockatoo wriggles out of the gag.
Cockatoo squawks, "No, I'm a Sciences major. :)"
A worm hole suddenly appears and sucks Quantum-Vacuum out.  The hole vanishes.
Eris says, "Vortex, sure!"
@go #50590
Eris goes to party at Club Dred!
A bouncer comes up to you and says, "Hey! Think you can crash the Club without paying, eh? Don't think so! Try using the door."
The Corner of Main Street and Queens Boulevard
Eris (She's Actual Size) is here.
A strange force deflects you from the destination.
You say, "Hey"
Eris says, "Heya, Vortex."
The line "you just saw was a spoof by Mephisto
You say, "Ok now try south"
Eris walks away to the south.
south
South Main Street
Eris (She's Actual Size) is here.
Far above, you see, greatly magnified, Guest Room containing Wind-Up Duck.
Eris souths.
Eris goes east.
east
You look at the majestic library, and decide that that is where you want to go.
Mole's Library
A library under construction.
There is a shrine to the goddess Eris, and the phrase 'All hail Eris' is proudly proclaimed on a banner stretching across the library.
Eris (She's Actual Size) is here.
As you walk into the library, the gargoyles give you a friendly 'Hello, sailor,' and a wink.
You say, "So..."
look shrine
You see a shiny, platinum shrine to the Holy Goddess Eris, the goddess of chaos.  There are fractal patterns etched in the shrine.
Eris says, "Wow... All Hail Eris is syntactically incorrect, though, but what do I care?"
Eris grins cheerily.
You say, "Eris, you know Hakim Bey's book"
Eris says, "Um, no... what book is that?"
You say, "T.A.Z.   Autonomedia Press"
Eris says, "No, I have not seen it.  Is it Discordian, then?  I'm afraid my incarnations"
Eris says, "Er, my incarnation's experience with Discordianism is limited to RAW's owrk work and the Principia Discordia."
You say, "subtitle is the temporary autonomous zone, ontological anarchy, poetic terrorism"
Eris says, "blast this terminal.  That's work not owrk."
You say, "i don't know discordianism"
Eris says, "Shock!"
Eris grins.
You say, "Forgive me"
Eris says, "Sounds like an interesting book, though."
"Your book.     --Eris
You say, "it is"
You say, "Chaos never died"
Eris says, "S'true, isn't it?"
You say, "Yes. Do you want to fall in love & get married?"
You say, "Tell me about discordianism"
Eris says, "Erm, to anyone in particular, or is this a general question?"  The first question...     --Eris
You say, "Well, we could get married. I'm available!"
Eris raises an eyebrow.  "Sir, we have just met."
Blue Canary says, "I'll sink Manhattan"
Eris applauds Blue Canary.
Blue Canary says, "There's a note on the door that I adore."
You say, "I've sunk Manhattan. Surely if someone has a shrine to you"
Eris says, "There are shrines to the Christian Satan.  Would you marry him?"
I don't understand that.
I don't understand that.
Eris says, "And never forget, my ancient Greek original incarnation was a real nasty bitch."
Eris chuckles ominously.
You say, "Why not get married at the start, though, I’ve already sunk manhattan. it'll be an open marriage"
You feel the hair on your arms stand up and all the objects around you raise off the floor three inches then drop back to the floor. Suddenly out of a flash of light CyberTec appears.
Banshee jumps in to the room and lands on the left side of CyberTec.
Wraith jumps in to the room and lands on the right side of CyberTec.
Eris says, "er, um, thanks for the offer but really I must decline.  The prospect of someone MARRYING Chaos is beyond even me.  Even though, I must admit, I *am* Chaos."
You say, "What's up people"
Eris greets CyberTec.
CyberTec says, "Hello"
You say, "Ok. but i am glad to be your friend. let's hang out"
Eris says, "You've got a deal, Vortex."
You say, "cool"
Eris grins and gives Vortex a nice chaotic hug.
Eris (She's Actual Size) and CyberTec are here.
CyberTec looks around the room.
Eris looks around the room.
CyberTec pokes Blue Canary.
look banshee
You say, "mmm nice hug :)"
A white panther.
Wraith's twin sister.
Eris pokes Kris.
Kris lifts his head from the table, his hair standing out crazily. He looks around with unfocused eyes.
Kris says, "known concentrations of hydronium ion.  To each of these a 10 ml aliquot of  5.4602x10-4 M phenol red was added. both The pH Meter Abstract: a solution of Acid3. Secondly, The acid was titrated with pure sodium Carbonate to determine The percent composition of The requirements, as well as reporting The mean derived. Table III shows The results of these two recordings were recorded and 4 are first derivative curves for The comprehension of The requirements, as well as having two different methods of performing titrations. Since The solution of HCl will be used to determine The molarity of The titration of The titration. Table II shows The information of The solutions were recorded."
Kris's head comes crashing back down on the table again.
CyberTec looks around the room.
You say, "damn"
You say, "How's ohio tonight?"
CyberTec says, "Oh ok"
Eris says, "Ohio is, quite naturally, bizarrely and stupidly boring."
CyberTec says, "Kind of cold."
Eris is there now.  Her incarnation is at Miami U, actually.
You say, "Same everywhere frigid in NY "
CyberTec says, "You too Eris? I go to Miami Hamilton."
Eris says, "Happy NY!  I'm listening to a Brooklyn band right now on my incarnation's radio."
You say, "Too cold to go to price chopper"
Eris says, "Miami Oxford!  Wow, interesting."
You say, "What band?  god is my co-pilot?"
Eris says, "Nope, They Might Be Giants."
CyberTec says, "There is a lot of people from Oxford on here."
You say, "AH. You have a band, right?"
Eris says, "I have a band?  Erm, no not really."
Eris says, "Yeah, CyberTec.  I don't have a proper VAX account, though."
You say, "Oh. Someone I know in moo from yr place has a band called 2 lesbians from kansas or something like that"
Eris says, "OH!  *chuckle*, no, that is my "band".  It's Two Lesbians from Whichitaw."


You say, "Oh. you know them?"
CyberTec says, "Huh?"
Eris says, "But it's purely tongue in cheek.  I mean, c'mon, an a capella thrash band?  Really."
You say, "what is a fnord? & the golden apple of discord?"
Eris says, "fnord is a word... it is supposed to be invisible.  The Apple of Discord is my symbol, of a sort."
You say, "Diamanda Galas is sometimes an acapella thrash band"
Eris says, "Really?"
look shrine
You see a shiny, platinum shrine to the Holy Goddess Eris, the goddess of chaos.  There are fractal patterns etched in the shrine.
Eris says, "Wow.  I thought we were original.  I am mistaken."
Eris says, "But now I must leave.  There is one here who needs my attentions."
CyberTec waves
You say, "I'm sure you are. Any recordings?"
With a snap of the fingers CyberTec disappears in a flash of light.
Eris says, "Farewell, fellas."
Eris says, "No recordings. *laugh*"
Eris says, "Seeya."
Eris apologizes for taking off so suddenly.
Eris says, "Thanks for showing me the shrine, Vortex."
You say, "See you again, Mz Eris"
Eris hugs Vortex goodbye.
Eris goes home.
whereis chaos
Chaos (#6853) is in Chaos' Flat (#13038).
@go #13038
Blue Canary says, "I was trying to get somewhere, but now I'm following the traces of your fingernails that run along the windshield of the boat of car."
Chaos' Flat


A small room with bright white walls. In a corner is a small mattress on which Chaos sleeps. A door leads out of the flat to the south and a hallway continues north.
Chaos (dozing) is here.
poke chaos
I don't understand that.
You say, "YO"
whereis silas
silas (#35480) is in The Body Bag (#50997).
@go #50997
The Body Bag


Despite its rather small exterior appearance, the interior of the Bag is very large. With walls that give the impression of liquid in constant motion, the source of light cannot be determined. One can only wonder how vast this room is since it seems to undergo constant change.
silas is here.
whereis intensity
silas says, "hi"
Intensity (#50242) is in The Body Bag (#25489).
@go #25489
Either Vortex doesn't want to go, or The Body Bag didn't accept it.
You say, "Hi"
look silas
You see nothing special. But then again, looks are deceiving.
He is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 staff named "staff1"                    greaves
 kite shield named "Gus"                 greaves
 broadsword named "sword1"               leather jacket
look greaves
I see no "greaves" here.
home
You click your heels three times.
The Coat Closet
@quit
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.




II.


connect marble erati
*** Connected ***
The Beach
Of deception. Water. Mission Of Burma's All World Cowboy Romance on an endless tapeloop of surf. You now have sand between your toes. You have now experiencing a lunar year in Virginia.
Last connected Sat Jan 23 17:32:45 1993 PST from thor.albany.edu
There's a new edition of the newspaper.  Type 'news' to see it.
@describe
I don't understand that.
Try this instead:  @describe as
@describe as
You must give the name of some object.
Beachball.
I don't understand that.


news
It's the current issue of the LambdaMOO Times, dated Thu Dec 10, 1992.


REALLY OPEN MOO
   "... [T]here is no longer a place here for wizard-mothers, guarding the nest and trying to discipline the chicks for their own good.  It is time for the wizards to give up on the `mother' role and to begin relating to this society as a group of adults with independent motivations and goals."
   For more on the brave new world of LambdaMOO, read the note "LambdaMOO Takes A New Direction" in the living room.

HOW TO BE A GOOD MOO CITIZEN
   The command `help manners' explains the LambdaMOO `rules of behavior', the wizards' impression of the general consensus about what kinds of things people find annoying or rude.  Every LambdaMOO player should make a point of reviewing that article.


MOO-COWS MAILING LIST
   If you're interested in discussions of MOO design and programming or have questions to put to the community of such people, send mail to 'MOO-Cows-Request@Xerox.Com' to be added to the mailing list 'MOO-Cows@Xerox.Com'.
   Please do *NOT* send mail to MOO-Cows asking to be added to or removed from MOO-Cows; that's what MOO-Cows-Request is for --- sorry if this seems obvious, but evidently it isn't.


CHECKPOINT SCHEDULE
   We are now checkpointing the database every 24 hours; the checkpoint occurs at approximately 3am LambdaMOO Standard Time each day.


(You finish reading.)
east
You can't go that way.
west
You can't go that way.
north
You can't go that way.
south
You can't go that way.
**
@read on *smut
Message 252 on *smut (#51585):
Date:     Fri Jan  8 16:35:15 1993 PST
From:     Someone (#?????)
To:       *smut (#51585)
Subject:  *mm


*mm sucks, no but reads it.
I think everyone should be as crude as possible.
GO EAT MY DOG SHIT YOU MONKEY BLOWING DONKEY FUCKING NUN LICKING SNAKE MILKING LITTLE GREEN LIMA BEAN HEADED FRUITS THAT BELIEVE IN MORALITY AND LIKE TO WATCH DIRTY MOVIES WHILE YOU MASTURBATE TO THE THOUGHT OF SEEING YOUR MOTHER AND FATHER NAKED BUT DON'T HAVE THE GUTS TO ENTER THEIR ROOM BECAUSE YOU'RE ALL WORMS!!!
--------------------------
Sick wishes everyone who read lists would @subscribe. @subscribers and @folders verbs are somewhat incorrect otherwise.
Dred waves to WC.
@read 1 on *smut
*smut has no message numbered `1'.
Dred [to Sick]: yeah. Sticky is a pain to keep track of.
@read all on * smut
Sick looks around for a WC.
I don't understand `all'
@read next on *smut
Message 253 on *smut (#51585):
Date:     Fri Jan  8 17:01:52 1993 PST
From:     Someone (#?????)
To:       *smut (#51585)
Subject:  re: rimjobs


Rimjobs are disgusting and so are the fags that do it.  When someone tells you to eat shit and die, I'm sure they don't mean it literally.
--------------------------


Sick doesn't use sticky. He just uses `@nn'.
@next
Dred oopses.


You have no next message.
@read next on *smut
Message 254 on *smut (#51585):
Date:     Fri Jan  8 21:13:58 1993 PST
From:     Someone (#?????)
To:       *smut (#51585)
Subject:  Hi


I just thought that I'd tell everyone that I found a security hole and am now keeping a list of {{{sender name,sender #},callers(),message}} for possible publication later on *soc and possibly rec.games.mud.


enjoy your anonymity :)
--------------------------
@read next on *smut
Message 255 on *smut (#51585):
Date:     Fri Jan  8 21:30:12 1993 PST
From:     Someone (#?????)
To:       *smut (#51585)


hehehehehhehehehehehe.....


--------------------------
*nn
I don't understand that.
@read next on *smut
Message 256 on *smut (#51585):
Date:     Sat Jan  9 00:51:02 1993 PST
From:     Someone (#?????)
To:       *smut (#51585)
Subject:  Marriage


Oh, whoever said, "Any moron simplistic enough to get engaged to a MOOer would sign there name." You and your engaged should get along well then, because she'll be a dipshit to engaged to  a MOOer, and you'll be a pair of dipshits! What fun!
--------------------------
Dred is going to go, too.
Sick loves this song (Ministry's `Flashback').
Primate's_Stick says, "bye dredski"
Dred waves.
Sick says, "bye"
Dred flips his cloak and summons the Dreadnot. He nimbly climbs aboard. The ship slowly fades from view. . .
@read next on *smut
Message 257 on *smut (#51585):
Date:     Sat Jan  9 13:15:26 1993 PST
From:     Someone (#?????)
To:       *smut (#51585)
Subject:  re: security loophole


Yeah...  right! Well, if you want us to believe that you found
a loophole, and you know who we are, then post the name of the
author of this article.  Only then will we (or I) believe you.
--------------------------
ZenDream waves...
ZenDream wonders if Zippy has had any of the peppers yet?
Zippy <-- idle
@read next on *smut
Message 258 on *smut (#51585):
Date:     Sun Jan 10 01:52:42 1993 PST
From:     Someone (#?????)
To:       *smut (#51585)
Subject:  anonymity




     Being "anonymous" is an option, if you don't like me signing my name to my posts then go fuck yourself.
   in his normal cheery mood,
    Saruman
--------------------------
ZenDream thnks Zippy <----chopsticking
Primate's_Stick says, "Zippy has passed out from the peppers"
@read next on *smut
Message 259 on *smut (#51585):
Date:     Sun Jan 10 10:19:53 1993 PST
From:     Someone (#?????)
To:       *smut (#51585)
Subject:  anonymity


Well said, Saruman.
--------------------------
@read next on *smut
Message 260 on *smut (#51585):
Date:     Sun Jan 10 12:54:21 1993 PST
From:     Someone (#?????)
To:       *smut (#51585)
Subject:  Iowa boys


I heard that guys from Iowa have to carry corncobs with them wherever they go because Iowa women are too damn skaggy to touch.
--------------------------
ZenDream hehess
@read next on *smut
Message 261 on *smut (#51585):
Date:     Sun Jan 10 12:56:27 1993 PST
From:     Someone (#?????)
To:       *smut (#51585)
Subject:  Iowa women


I hear women in Iowa have to carry corncobs because the men there don't satisfy their needs.
--------------------------
@read next on *smut
Message 262 on *smut (#51585):
Date:     Sun Jan 10 13:02:08 1993 PST
From:     Someone (#?????)
To:       *smut (#51585)
Subject:  California boys


What the fuck are you down on Iowa for?  You say _Iowa_ girls are skanks?  I wouldn't want to touch one of your fucked up AIDS-infested bitches.  While I am at it, all the queers in CA can suck my big RL dick.
--------------------------
ZenDream complements PS on the interior decorating......
Primate's_Stick says, "thank you...it's still a little oozy"
You hear the bips of keyclick, the sliding of mice and the hum of computers in the distance as Sick fades slowly out of view, heading towards them.
@read next on *smut
You have no next message.
ZenDream thinks it feels good on the toes....
@read next on *smut
Message 263 on *smut (#51585):
Date:     Sun Jan 10 13:25:28 1993 PST
From:     Someone (#?????)
To:       *smut (#51585)
Subject:  Re: California boys


Ah, bet you'd _like_ that, wouldn't you???!!


--------------------------
Primate's_Stick grins
@read next on ZenDream says, "Not like carpet at all...."
*smut
Message 264 on *smut (#51585):
Date:     Sun Jan 10 13:27:38 1993 PST
From:     Someone (#?????)
To:       *smut (#51585)
Subject:  Re: CA Boys




My guess is he would like to have a big dick iRL
--------------------------
@read next on *smut
Message 265 on *smut (#51585):
Date:     Sun Jan 10 14:26:30 1993 PST
From:     Someone (#?????)
To:       *smut (#51585)
Subject:  fruits and stuff


How many of you *smut perverts have had sexual experiences with inanimate objects and what were they?
--------------------------
Primate's_Stick says, "right, and no vacuuming required"


There are the light bips of keyclick and the sliding of mice as Sick fades into view, shoving himself away from the console, which promptly fades away.
look primate's_stick
Primate's_Stick
A LARGE, HAIRY, NEANDERTHAL-LOOKING MAN GAZES QUIZZICALLY AT THE COMPUTER, THEN THRUSTS IT INTO A HOLE TO COLLECT ANTS ON WHICH HE FEEDS GREEDILY.  A SMALL BOOKISH MAN APPROACHES THE GORILLA AND GENTLY ADVISES HIM, 'There are more advanced and intelligent uses for this tool, my friend.' THE BIG, HAIRY BEAST NODS HIS HEAD AND REPLIES, 'Yeah I know, but I forgot my password.'
He is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 book (worn)                             Bad_Genes
 Hunter-Gatherer                         extinction
 philosophy
ZenDream and the protozoa kep thing pretty clean too.....
@read next on *smut
Message 266 on *smut (#51585):
Date:     Sun Jan 10 20:06:41 1993 PST
From:     Someone (#?????)
To:       *smut (#51585)
Subject:  stuff


I once had a fabulous romance with a lovely, palm-sized Lady Schick Electric Shaver that my mother bought me with the fervent hope that such a high-tech device would encourage me to shave my legs.
I woke up every morning with its slender, white cord tangled around my sticky, happy (still-downy) thighs.
Maybe that's why I'm so attracted to electronic media?????
--------------------------
ZenDream says, "jeez....get my say and emote all mixxed up....."
Primate's_Stick can sometimes hear the protozoa chewing in the walls at night.

@go #2717
The Living Room
FireHeart (daydreaming), Stinglai U.S.M., Xorian, and Guest are here.
Cockatoo squawks, "ok well im gonna go hit the sack too..."
Xorian greets Vortex
You say, "flibberguck"
look xorian
Xorian
Xorian wears a simple white tunic tied at the waist with a white rope.  He has long dark blond hair that is bound in a ponytail by a gold ring at the nape of his neck.  He wears gold-rimmed circular glasses, partially hidden on his right side by his long forelock.  He looks like he comes from another world, which, in fact, he does.  However, his home world is down indefinitely, so he has decided to become a full-time LambdaMOO resident.  A pad of paper with object numbers scribbled all over it, and a pencil attached by a piece of string is hanging from his belt.
He is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 brass key                               Xorian's Tarot Deck
Stinglai has disconnected.


@go #1
Either Vortex doesn't want to go, or Root Class didn't accept it.
@go #2
Either Vortex doesn't want to go, or Haakon didn't accept it.
@go #3
generic room
You see nothing special.
@go #4
Either Vortex doesn't want to go, or Resurrectee #4 didn't accept it.
@go #5
Either Vortex doesn't want to go, or generic thing didn't accept it.
@ go #6
Either Vortex doesn't want to go, or generic player didn't accept it.
@go #7
Either Vortex doesn't want to go, or generic exit didn't accept it.
@go #17
The Living Room
@go #18
Either Vortex doesn't want to go, or northeast didn't accept it.
@go #9
Either Vortex doesn't want to go, or generic note didn't accept it.
@go #10
Either Vortex doesn't want to go, or a newspaper didn't accept it.
@go #44
Either Vortex doesn't want to go, or west didn't accept it.
Guest exits to the north.
whereis calliope
Calliope (#49921) is in the Well (#50765).
@go #50765
Either Vortex doesn't want to go, or the Well didn't accept it.
Lemon_Curry slides open the glass door from the deck and comes in, sliding it closed behind him.
Lemon_Curry wanders off into the kitchen.
whereis grump
Grump (#122) is in The Possibly Happening place (#46779).
@go @46779
There's no such place known.
home
You click your heels three times.
The Coat Closet
@read next on *smut
Message 267 on *smut (#51585):
Date:     Mon Jan 11 10:28:59 1993 PST
From:     Someone (#?????)
To:       *smut (#51585)
Subject:  piercings


I saw a woman the other day with a pierced tongue.
--------------------------
exit
I don't understand that.
@quit
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.




*




I.


You say, "Nice place"
Demian says, "how'd you get here?"
Demian says, "just wandering?"
Leigh-Cheri looks around the room.
You say, "well, I've met L-C before, kind of, & thought to drop in"
Leigh-Cheri says, "have we met? i don't remember"
Demian says, "oh cute...welll i own her and i say...hehehehe...just kidding"
Demian says, "you dont remember much...but thats ok"
Leigh-Cheri laughs at demian, rolls her eyes
Leigh-Cheri says, "it's all that thc, demian"
Demian says, "i was thinking in physics yesterday that"
Demian says, "if i do enough acid, i could totally lose"
Demian says, "track with time and become like a time traveller or something"
Leigh-Cheri laughs at demian, looks at him like he's crazy
A door suddenly appears out of nowhere, expanding to the size of a normal human. Phylon steps through it, and waves to all.
Phylon (WOW!) bows gracefully.
Demian says, "i was seriously trying to figure out the nature of time..i think i was flashing back"
Phylon (WOW!) kisses Leigh-Cheri's hand. It's so cute!
Phylon says, "Hello, milady."
Leigh-Cheri claps her hands, jumps around. "yay!! for me?"
You say, "You guys are cool but Katie Yates is here now & I have to go!"
Phylon nods to Leigh-Cheri.
Demian says, "hey man what does phylon mean? i know this band pylon"
Demian says, "later marble man"
Leigh-Cheri says, "yeah, I’ve done that stoned, demian...thought i could hear my body talking and shit"
Phylon says, "Phylon means nothing. Phylon just popped into my mind.."
home
You click your heels three times.
The Beach
@quit
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.




II.


Guest notes there were periods of lag over 20 minutes
Sick [to Vortex]: HELLO!
Denny [to Psalty]: Just to be different
Psalty waves to Vortex.
You say, "hi, man"
Shorty [to Vortex]: "HI!
Psalty [to Denny]: Ah...
Shorty quickly morphs into IceCube.
ajia [to Sick]: myob
You say, "I go to Santa Cruz wednesday"
look
Ajia's teahouse
ajia, Psalty, IceCube, Guest, Denny, and Sick are here.
IceCube quickly morphs into Shorty.
ajia [to Sick]: I need those treats
Denny beatboxes while Shorty raps.
Yellow_Guest teleports in.
Shorty produces a bag of cookie treats and hands them to ajia
Sick [to Denny]: better give her another one
Psalty waves to Yellow_Guest.
Shorty waves to Yellow
Sick [to Yellow_Guest]: hello, yellow_guest!
Denny exclaims, "Yello!"
Denny hugs Yellow_Guest warmly.
ajia [to Yellow_Guest]: HELLO
Psalty [to Yellow_Guest]: Hellow Yellow
Shorty exclaims, "Hi yellow!"
You say, "lint bash marsh"
ajia [to Sick]: I've stolen that from you. I'm quite attached to that greeting.
Denny says, "All guests are welcome here :)"
Psalty loves the laglessness.
Denny smiles.
Guest likes it too
Shorty [to Psalty]: "Yeah, this is the least lag I've had since I've been on Lambda!
Sick says, "We love guests."
Yellow_Guest .______    ______   ______   __    __    _
Yellow_Guest |  ____|  |  __  | |  __  | |  \  /  |  / \
Yellow_Guest | |_____  | |  | | | |  | | |   \/   | |   |
Yellow_Guest |_____  | | |__| | | |__| | | |\  /| | |   |
Yellow_Guest .     | | |  ____| |  __  | | | \/ | |  \_/
Yellow_Guest . ____| | | |      | |  | | | |    | |
ajia [to Yellow_Guest]: mi casa es su casa
Shorty [to Yellow_Guest]: "What's Spamo?
east
Denny [to Yellow_Guest]: how are you? and how is that wonderful S.O. of yours?
You can't go that way.
west
You can't go that way.
north
You can't go that way.
south
You can't go that way.
_______________________________________________________________
Yellow_Guest         |  ____|  |  __  | |  __  | |  \  /  |  / \
Yellow_Guest         | |_____  | |  | | | |  | | |   \/   | |   |
Yellow_Guest         |_____  | | |__| | | |__| | | |\  /| | |   |
Yellow_Guest              |    |  ____| |  __  | | | \/ | |  \_/
Yellow_Guest          ____| |  | |      | |  | | | |    | |
Yellow_Guest        |______|  |_|      |_|  |_| |_|    |_|   0


Yellow_Guest says, "there"
Sick [to Yellow_Guest]: where have you been? i've missed you so much!
Shorty [to Yellow_Guest]: "Oh! Spam (!)
You say, "Where can I get a massage?"
Psalty pats Shorty onna head.
Shorty points the way to the massage parlor
Guest says, "hullo yullo"
look shorty
Shorty
You see a tall, six foor male with lightly tanned skin, smoldering blue eyes,   black hair, and a grin that lasts from here to Poland.  He is wearing Nike      shoes, blue jeans, a gray sweatshirt, a chain with the logo for rap group PublicEnemy, and we assume that he is wearing underwear.  He is holding a WalkMan     playing a tape by the rap artist Too $hort.  He seems to be a friendly,         talkative person.
He is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 For Justy
ajia [to Vortex]: try the living room
Shorty [to Yellow_Guest]: "You a temporary guest?  Getting a character?”
Psalty LUGHS.
Psalty LAUGHS.
Shorty lughs and laughs
Yellow_Guest is a temp char
Denny LUGHS Psalty.
Psalty [to Shorty]: Thank you.
You say, "Where's Ajia?"
Psalty [to Denny]: Thank you.
ajia says, "I don't know"
You say, "AH"
Shorty [to Psalty]: "No prob :-)
Denny feeds ajia a cookie treat.
You say, "(Gassho)"
ajia swallows
Denny pats ajia onna head.
look ajia
Shorty feeds everyone big chocolate chip cookies that his friend Doris made
A flurry of phantasmagoric images flare before your eyes, the scream of tortured souls wracks your ears, a searing column of flame drops from the ceiling, smoke of foul brimstone fills the rooom. Mephisto steps out from amongst the chaos.
Mephisto bows gracefully.
Shorty waves to Mephisto
Psalty [to Vortex]: You want a massage? Go to _Club_Dred_ (advertising advertising) and ask Abigail the waitress for one.
ajia says, "hi, Mephisto"
Shorty says, "My gosh!  So many people here!~  We need a roll call"
You say, "Can I get some tea?"
Denny breakdances on the floor, on the table, on the sofa.
Denny oofs.
Mephisto [to ajia]: hello
Shorty gets up and git gits down cause 911 is a joke in this town
Psalty waves.
ajia waves
Shorty waves
Guest waves
Yellow_Guest says, "ok since I didn't say hi before I will now"
Denny waves.


Yellow_Guest .__   __   _____   __     __      ____
Yellow_Guest |  | |  | |   __| |  |   |  |    /    \
Yellow_Guest |  |_|  | |  |_   |  |   |  |   |  ||  |
Yellow_Guest |   _   | |   _|  |  |   |  |   |  ||  |
Yellow_Guest |  | |  | |  |__  |  |__ |  |__ |  ||  |
Yellow_Guest |__| |__| |_____| |_____||_____| \____/
Dav appears surrounded by great light.  As the light fades, two doves appear and fly away.
Mephisto waves
Shorty [to Yellow_Guest]: "How'dya do that?
ajia says, "hi, Dav"
Psalty says, "DAV!!!!!!"
Psalty *HUGS* Dav!
Shorty waves to Dav
Mephisto says, "hello dav"
Dav waves ajia, Denny, Sick, Shorty, Guest, Psalty, you, Yellow_Guest, and Mephisto.
Dav says, "hi Psalty!"
An inferno suddenly sweeps into the room. In the fire you see four men, three of whom walk into the distant flames, leaving Azariah in the room.
Denny *LUGHS* Dav
Guest decides to log off now
"Dav says, "hi AJia!"
Psalty [to Yellow_Guest]: Yeah! If you are a temp character, o/ how do you know these things?
Azariah *HUGS* Psalty!
Shorty waves to Azariah
You say, "I feel left out!"
ajia [to Dav]: HI
Psalty *HUGS* Azariah!
Dav says, "Hi Deeny"
Shorty waves to Vortex (again)
ajia exclaims, "bye, Guest!"
Dav hugs ajia warmly.
Gordo teleports in.
Shorty waves to everybody 1000 times
Guest nods goodbye to all
Dav *HUGS* Psalty!
Shorty waves to Gordo
Psalty waves to Gordo.
Dav *HUGS* Psalty!
Guest goes home.
Azariah [to Gordo]: I got a message that you logged off.
Shorty waves to Guest
Psalty [to Yellow_Guest]: Bai bai
Gordo waves to Psalty.
Yellow_Guest says, "BAI! :0"
Psalty [to Yellow_Guest]: Oops..
Psalty grins.
Denny waves at Yellow_Guest.
Mephisto says, "BONZAI"
Gordo waves to Shorty
whereis flight_control
"flight_control" is not the name of any player.
Shorty waves to Gordo
ajia waves to the fat one
out
Shorty [to Yellow_Guest]: "How'd you make those big signs?
North Arcade
Various sports and entertainment facilities branch off from here. There are muddy tracks leading from a mud-wrestling pit to the northeast.  A cold blast of air comes from the Ice Palace to the north.  Polished doors muffle the sound of dance music from the studio to the west.  The smell of jasmine comes from frosted sliding glass doors to the northwest.  A large bronze door to the southeast leads to the LaserTag Arena.
You sense that Shorty is looking for you in ajia's teahouse.
He pages, "Whereya goin?"


help page
Syntax:  page <player> [[with] <text>]


Sends a message to a connected player, telling them your location and, optionally, <text>.


Example:
Munchkin types:
        page Frebble with "Where are you?"
Frebble sees:
        You sense that Munchkin is looking for you in the Kitchen.
        He pages, "Where are you?"
Munchkin sees:
        Your message has been received.


Advanced Features:
Page refers to the following messages on the players involved (see 'help messages'):


@page_origin [You sense that %n is looking for you in %l.]
  Determines how the recipient is told of your location.


@page_echo   [Your message has been sent.]
  Determines the response received by anyone who pages you.


@page_absent [%N is not currently logged in.]
  Determines the response received by anyone who tries to page you when you aren't connected.


All of these undergo the usual pronoun substitutions (see 'help pronouns') except that in both cases the direct object (%d) refers to the recipent of the page and the indirect object (%i) refers to the sender.  You should only change these messages if you want to add to the Virtual Reality feel of LambdaMOO for your character.
page shorty [i don't know]
Your message has been sent.
north
Teddy's Ice Palace
Welcome to Teddy's Ice Palace! Here is the place for you to enjoy the fun and excitement of ice skating. Go ahead and get a pair of skating boots from the Skates Counter.
Some people are skating in the north. The exit to the Arcade is in the south.
You see logo of the ice rink, poster of Brian Britano, poster of Brian Oscer, poster of Kurt Browning, poster of Midori Ito and poster of Kristi Yamaguchi on the wall.
You see Skating Instructions and Skates Counter here.
Teddy is here.
look teddy
He no longer wonders around MOO with his skating boots.  Finally, he has found a place where he can skate -- Teddy's Ice Palace.  He is now practicing day and night in the ice rink.  However, he looks as silly as he used to.
He is sleeping.
Carrying:
 Database of skating skill               suit of chainmail
 skating boots                           skull-cap
 staff named "s"                         vambraces
 leather jacket                          katana named "k"
 greaves
north
A staff of the ice rink came up to you and said "You can't go onto the ice without wearing your skating boots."
east
You can't go that way.
west
You can't go that way.
south
North Arcade
east
You can't go that way.
west
Dance Studio
A large spacious room. The floor is polished wood, just right for dancing. The room smells of sweat and perfume.  There is a light switch in the corner. A disco ball hangs from the ceiling and spins slowly, shining spots of colored light everywhere.
You see sound system and A Momentary Lapse of Reason here.
look a momentary lapse of reason
You see nothing special.
look sound system
A large sound-system, suitable for a dance hall. It looks like it might have a place to hold CDs. It is empty.
west
You can't go that way.
north
You can't go that way.
south
You can't go that way.
east
You tire of dancing, and boogie out.
North Arcade
west
Dance Studio
east
You tire of dancing, and boogie out.
North Arcade
east
You can't go that way.
south
You can't go that way.
north
Teddy's Ice Palace
Teddy is here.
south
North Arcade
inside
I don't understand that.
in
I don't understand that.
out
I don't understand that.
@go #49341
Ajia's teahouse
Denny, Azariah, Gordo, ajia, Shorty, Sick, Psalty, and Mephisto are here.
Shorty waves to Vortex
Shorty wonders if the Club Dred phone will appear
Yellow_Guest teleports in.
Sick exclaims, "Yellow_Guest!"
ajia [to Yellow_Guest]: HELLO
Yellow_Guest says, "Won’t let me in"
Azariah teleports Wolf in.
Gordo eyes Shorty warily.
Rajia laughs
Shorty waves to Yellow
You say, "Bye, people, L A T E R"
Psalty [to Shorty]: What difference does height make? Well, if you're in a concert, you can see past people's heads.. And the weather up there is cooler too.
Sick laughs
Mephisto believes he said something to that effect
Shorty smiles
@go #17
The Living Room
east
You can't go that way.
east
You can't go that way.
west
You can't go that way.
home
You click your heels three times.
The Coat Closet
@quit
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.




*




I.


Gam-Bit says, "i moved you"
You say, "Tricky. Should I be suspicious?"
Gam-Bit says, "no"
You say, "good. Iz the S(t)uper bowl party happening at your house yet?"
Gam-Bit says, "no"
You say, "how do i become a resident?"
Gam-Bit says, "type @sethome here"
You say, "Ah. I'll try"
Type @sethome here
I don't understand that.
Try this instead:  @sethome
@sethome
This place doesn't want to be your home.  Contact Gam-Bit to be added to the residents list of this place, or choose another place as your home.
Gam-Bit says, "why not now its better than a coat closet??"
Computer says, "The panel is now unlocked and does not require owner verification."
You say, "I tried. Sed ‘this place doesn't want to be your home. You need to add me to resident's list.’"
Gam-Bit presses a button on the panel.
Gam-Bit orders a drink from the replicator. You hear a humming and a drink appears out of nowhere.
Gam-Bit says, "hhmmm"
press drink
Computer says, "What kind of drink could i get you?"
[Type a line of input or `@abort' to abort the command.]
You say, “strawberry tea”
You hear a humming and a drink appears out of nowhere.
look remy's radio
  commands:
    turn radio on/turn radio off
    @listst*ations radio  - show available radio stations
    switch radio to <channel number>  - to change the radio station.


--Keelah.
A feeling of dread overcomes you and your bowels empty themselves as the Lord of Fear Joel arrives in a searing column of flame.
turn radio on
The radio is already on.
Joel says, "Yes?"
You say, "who you?"
look joel
Joel
You see before you a rather average looking young man dressed in casual clothing and carrying a battleaxe.  He proudly displays Joel's Official Helpful Person Badge.
He is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 broadsword named "Destruction"          staff named "Life"
 battleaxe named "Hack"                  $58 gold pieces
 sai named "Louie"                       suit of chainmail
 dagger named "Longtooth"                greaves
 crossbow named "Bolt"                   vambraces
 military pick named "toothpick"         skull-cap
 scythe named "Reaper"                   Joel's orb
 katana named "Mason"                    wand
 javelin named "thermo_nuke"             battleaxe named "Badass"
Gam-Bit says, "how do you have new residents"
Joel says, "Type '@resident (name)'"
Gam-Bit says, "thanx"


(WMUM Radio Station) DJ says, "Hello, hello, this is WMUM, now for the song, ‘I Wanna Sex You Up, by Color Me Bad’."
You say, "gam-bit:  how do i pick stuff up in moo-land, or drink something, etc."
Joel says, "Try it and let me know"
Gam-Bit says, "now try "
Joel says, "Try what?"
Gam-Bit says, "i meant vortex"
@sethome
Gam-Bit's is your new home.
You say, "It worked"
You say, "This is my new home"
Gam-Bit says, "yup"
You say, "I've been playing around out here the last few days. Met some fun women from ohio, who i've been getting along with"
Joel says, "Anything else?"
Gam-Bit says, "no"
A black hole appears and starts sucking everything in.  Everyone holds on for dear life but Joel doesn't make it and gets sucked through.
Gam-Bit says, "bye joel"
You say, "How do i pick things up, etc?"
Gam-Bit presses a button on the panel.
You say, "How would i press a button on the panel?"
Gam-Bit presses a button on the panel.
look gam-bit
Gam-Bit
You see a shady man who is very dexteritious and agile. You think it would be wise to keep close watch on your pockets. He is comely & cool.
He is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 machete named "Slice"                   skull-cap
 machete named "Dice"                    katana named "DragonSword"
 suit of chainmail                       crossbow named "deadeye"
 leather jacket                          staff named "s"
 vambraces                               plastic, unbreakable cup of tequila
 greaves
Gam-Bit says, "type 'press <what ever>"
push button
I don't understand that.
press button
Computer says, "Heh? Please repeat that I do not understand."
press button
Computer says, "Heh? Please repeat that I do not understand."
Initiation Chamber
The chamber is completely dark. Nothing is visible, though there is an unmistakable sense of presence, as though you are not alone.
There is a brief muttering from somewhere in front of you, then suddenly a bright light is shone directly in your face. You can't see a thing, but after a while you hear a whispered voice saying "Yes, he will do."
An authoritative voice whispers "Welcome to the Bovine Illuminati, Brother. Now go to the academy to realize your potential."
You are sucked in the void.DON'T MESSu WITH GAM-BIT
Void opens and Gam-Bit steps out. the void closes
Gam-Bit says, "go s"
Gam-Bit says, "type s vortex"
s
Atrium
A single lantern illuminates this room, revealing a large chamber with various pieces of ancient furniture scattered about. On the north, south and east sides of the room you can dimly make out doorways, and a carved oak door leads west. There is a constant subdued whispering coming from some unidentifiable direction. In the corner is a rickety-looking staircase leading down into gloomy darkness.
You see a full-length mirror here.
Gam-Bit comes back from the north looking inspired.
look mirror
In the mirror you see someone who looks a bit like you.
It is quite plain and homely, of average build and looks moderately trustworthy. It occasionally steps awkwardly and stumbles. It gazes timidly at you, looks healthy enough and when it moves it sometimes drops things. You can tell that it has huge potential for self-improvement.
You say, "where else is there to go?"
You say, "...& what is the bovine illuminati"
Gam-Bit says, "vortex, here wander around and enroll in classes if you need help call paper work"
Gam-Bit throws a card. BOOM. a small portal of void appears he enter
look card
I see no "card" here.
call paper work
I don't understand that.
call paper work
I don't understand that.
whereis gam-bit
Gam-Bit (#50235) is in Gam-Bit's (#52300).
n
You walk through the doorway and notice that as you do so, the subdued whispering suddenly ceases completely.
Initiation Chamber
A voice whispers "Welcome back, Brother."
You say, "Greetings"
n
You can't go that way.
e
You can't go that way.
w
You can't go that way.
down
You can't go that way.
up
You can't go that way.
s
Atrium
down
Bovine Illuminati Dormitory
A room containing rows of rough beds for the use of initiates of the Bovine Illuminati who don't have anywhere else to spend the night. The accommodation is spartan, but better than nothing.
You see morgan here.
Mandor, Dozer, Pops, Elgon, It, Fisherman, Bo, conan, Ztrauq, Wisp, reptile, Ulric, Marcos, quasar, Andy, Sunkist, Uplink_Lebeux (asleep), and TheRunningMan (asleep) are here.
You say, "HELL           OH"
whereis gam-bit
Gam-Bit (#50235) is in Gam-Bit's (#52300).


up
Atrium
n
Initiation Chamber
@home
You click your heels three times.
Gam-Bit's
Gam-Bit (asleep) is here.
n
You can't go that way.
e
You can't go that way.
s
You can't go that way.
w
You can't go that way.
nw
You can't go that way.
ne
You can't go that way.
se
You can't go that way.
sw
You can't go that way.
**
whereis leigh-cheri
Leigh-Cheri (#53476) is in Stoddard Temple (#33093).
**
@go #17
The Living Room
Sick, Jetta, Queerboy, Justy_Shadowhawke (living in another world to you, and she can't help herself), and Neal_Cassady are here.
Neal_Cassady [to Justy_Shadowhawke]: why have you set the hell hounds on my tail?
Queerboy says, "so you will always think of me, jetta"
Sick says, "Vort"
Jetta [to Queerboy]: Oh, I'm sure I will.
Jetta [to Vortex]: Hey
You say, "Yup..."
Justy_Shadowhawke [to Neal_Cassady]: I set hellhounds on everyone's tail.  for attention.
look jetta
Jetta
Your eyes rest upon a young woman clad in faded jeans, a long-sleeved shirt with an open zipper at the neck, and a battered pair of purple DM boots. She wears no other decoration, save a watch strapped around her left wrist.
She is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 Crystal Rose                            cd player 2
 cello                                   Honey glazed donuts
 a beat mixer                            The Kama Sutra
 cd player 1                             jeff stryker dildo
Neal_Cassady says, "how sweet of you...i didn’t know you cared..."
Jetta [to Vortex]: Do you tend to drop cups of tea easily?
look jeff stryker dildo
I see no "jeff stryker dildo" here.
Justy_Shadowhawke tries to please dog-lovers.
Neal_Cassady [to Jetta]: Pardon...
Yonse-Erik teleports in.
Jetta [to Neal_Cassady]: What?
Yonse-Erik waves his arms and mutters weird syllables.
Nothing happens.
Jetta needs real food.
Yonse-Erik waves his arms and mutters weird syllables.
Nothing happens.
Justy_Shadowhawke [to Yonse-Erik]: how is Bali?
Neal_Cassady [to Jetta]: indeed
Jetta waves to Yonse-Erik
Yonse-Erik says, "not bad"
You say, "Well, gam-bit provided the cups"
drink tea
Sick wonders why he isn't following the conversation. He must need sleep.
You drink some tea.
Neal_Cassady quickly morphs into Dean_Moriarty.
Justy_Shadowhawke [to Yonse-Erik]: Did he notice I was gone on Saturday?
Dean_Moriarty quickly morphs into Huw.
Jetta needs sleep, food, and something other than Diet Coke.
Yonse-Erik says, "nope he carried on normally"
Whisper shasta [i've found a new home]
I don't understand that.
Justy_Shadowhawke says, "have you tried that liberty thing?"
Yonse-Erik says, "gotta Jt to the RPg "
look
The Living Room
Sick, Jetta, Queerboy, Justy_Shadowhawke (I Wanna Be Sedated), Huw, and Yonse-Erik are here.
Queerboy says, "noramlly?"
Queerboy hmmms
Yonse-Erik says, "fuck off so I have a speech impediment who are you mr. Rogers?"
Sick brb
look jeff stryker dildo
Sick leaves in search of better company.
I see no "jeff stryker dildo" here.
Yonse-Erik hmmphs
Queerboy says, "welcome to my neighborhood"
Yonse-Erik glares
Jetta says, "Hey"
Yonse-Erik teleports out.
Jetta boots Sick to the head.
Huw . o O ( Ill watch the SuperBowl now )
whereis demian
Demian (#50389) is in The Psychedelic Solution (#27930).
whereis gam-bit
Gam-Bit (#50235) is in Gam-Bit's (#52300).
Jetta says, "you've got 5 minutes"
@go #27930
The Psychedelic Solution
Looking about you see many interesting things, which in your present state of mind, are extremely relaxing. All around the room are various couches and seats, all very comfortable for very long periods of time. The floor is covered with dark colored carpets from the Orient which blend together with the illustrious tapestries hanging from both the walls and the ceiling. In the center of the room is a table not more than a foot off the ground, luxuriously set for three with exotic teas, and spicy Indian foods. There is frankincense burning and hypnotizing Indian music comes from an unseen source. There is an exit through the north wall to a luxurious bath, down a set of spiral stairs, and to the west is a balcony.
You see Lavoisier here.
You say, "wow, nice place"
look lavoisier
A sleek, thousand-curved ship painted in the form of the mandelbrot fractal image with thousands of astonishing colors.  The engines are off, the conduits a dull white crystal. The craft is resting on its twin landing skids.
The access door is open, the boarding ramp is down.
down
Foyer
You see nothing special.
Demian is here.
down
You can't go that way.
up
The Psychedelic Solution
The access door is open, the boarding ramp is down.
enter
I don't understand that.
open access door
I don't understand that.
@go #33093
You begin to move into the room but encounter some resistance. With a snap you're catapulted back where you came from.
Either Vortex doesn't want to go, or Stoddard Temple didn't accept it.
down
Foyer
You see nothing special.
Demian (daydreaming) is here.
You say, "Hi Demian"
Demian stares off into the middle distance.
You say, "What up?"
look demian
Demian
Blond haired, blue eyed, somewhat attractive white male. Wearing jeans, doc Marten shoes (not boots), and a t-shirt of the band Superchunk. Hes 6 feet, 155 lbs. Nothing else much to say.
He is awake, but has been staring off into space for 3 minutes.
You say, "any idea where stoddard temple is?"
Demian says, "thats where leigh lives"
You say, "Oh. I noticed she was there, but didn't know it was home. "
You say, "Is this yr home?"
Demian says, "yup"
You say, "Upstairs is nice!"
Demian says, "did you see the balcony?"
You say, "not yet"
You say, "i'll go now"
Demian says, "im still moving stuff around a bit"
Demian says, "be my guest"
You say, "ok. i won't bother you.."
up
The Psychedelic Solution
up
PhySh Room
Room is currenty under construction
PhySh is here.
e
You can't go that way.
w
You can't go that way.
s
You can't go that way.
n
You can't go that way.
up
You can't go that way.
down
The Psychedelic Solution
e
You can't go that way.
w
Balcony in Valencia
Looking out, you see the central square of the lovely city of Valencia. On one side is the great market with fresh chickens, oranges, and other delicious foods from all over the province. Narrow streets branch out from the square at bizarre angles. Thousands of people crowd the square on this beautiful afternoon, relaxing in the lovely sun. Looking out over the red brick rooftops, you can see the crystal blue Mediterranean Sea shimmering in the distance...
w
You can't go that way.
e
The Psychedelic Solution
w
Balcony in Valencia
n
You can't go that way.
s
You can't go that way.


e
The Psychedelic Solution
**
@go #17
The Living Room
Queerboy and Justy_Shadowhawke (sleeping) are here.
whereis jett
Jetta (#28847) is in 1934 Buick (#29514).
page sick [where y'all going]
Sick reads your page with an expression of pure awe.
The housekeeper arrives to cart Queerboy off to bed.
The housekeeper arrives to cart Justy_Shadowhawke off to bed.
Sick pages, "i'm not sure. she's driving, i think"
page jetta [where y'all going?]
Your message has been sent.
You sense that Jetta is looking for you in 1934 Buick.
She pages, "everyone left"
whereis jetta
Jetta (#28847) is in 1934 Buick (#29514).
@go #29514
1934 Buick
        You are in the craft. The interior has several seats. The pilot sits in the front seat, facing all of the computer consoles. You look to the status screen to get information about current status. It displays a few lines of important information: The door is open, the boarding ramp is down.
Location    : HVECs Hanger Alpha - Level 001 (#45676)
Destination : The St. James Club (#12659)
The engines are in hover mode.
Transporter locked onto ThePope and Democ.
You see Office, Eris (asleep)'s grave, The Pope, The Wanderer, and Toby here.
Elliss (asleep), Sorbonne (asleep), Eris (asleep), Jetta, Sick, and Rusty (busy about many things) are here.
Sick nods.
Sick says, "VORTEX"
Jetta wishes people would knock first...
Jetta says, "Hi."
You say, "Sorry... should I leave?"
Sick [to Rusty]: where's you manners, dammit?
Jetta says, "No, that's all right."
Sick [to Vortex]: where's you manners, dammit?
Jetta says, "Just remember that for next time."
Rusty drawls, "sorry Jetta, Ahh joined sick cauz Ahh thought the poke was in the lr"
Jetta says, "That's what they all say :)"
You say, "I don't know how to knock is the truth of it..."
Sick laughs
Demian falls into the room through a hole in the ether, obviously a bit dazed.
Demian goes home.
You say, "In fact I don't know much about anything. Chaos never died"
Jetta says, "Hi Demian."
Rusty drawls, "Ahh can't make a morph named Rust cuz Ahh already got one named Rusty-Jr."
Demian falls into the room through a hole in the ether, obviously a bit dazed.
Sick [to Rusty]: Really? Hm.
Rusty [to Sick]: why is that?
Sick [to Demian]: Hello. I hope you knocked first. Jetta'll be pissed.
Sick [to Rusty]: I'll look into it.
Demian says, "where are you going?"
Jetta says, "hey, D."
Jetta says, "We're not going anywhere."
Jetta says, "Oh shut up, Sick"
You say, "Nowhere to go..."
Jetta doesn't drive this car.
Jetta says, "Sorry"
Rusty nods solemnly.
Sick [to Jetta]: Sorry.
Demian says, "i was just seeing if vortex was still around my place, but he wasnt so i split"
Demian bows to all.
Demian goes home.
Jetta says, "Ah"
You say, "I gotta go do radio in Troy NY soon, so wish you a nice night wherever you end up"
You say, "Be well"
Sick [to Rusty]: It's cos :get_morph checks for prefixes. I'll have to add a way to avoid prefix checking on @createmorph.
Rusty drawls, "ah Ahh see"
Rusty drawls, "Ah'll work on Russ"
home
You click your heels three times.
Gam-Bit's
@quit
A little door opens and a small robot comes zipping out. It takes the plastic, unbreakable cup of tea from you, and shoots on back into the hole, which closes behind it.
A little door opens and a small robot comes zipping out. It takes the plastic, unbreakable cup of strawberry tea from you, and shoots on back into the hole, which closes behind it.
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.




II.


caprice says, "is that a proposition, Vortex?"
ajia says, "caprice likes to drink"
Dred points to hapless victims, "Let loose the raging hormones from hell!"
The waitress finishes writing down Dred's order and disappears into the crowd.
caprice winks at vortex.
caprice grins at Dred.
emote blows kisses
Vortex blows kisses
caprice smiles coyly.
The waitress comes out of the crowd, and carefully sets down a rum and coke in front of Dred, who promptly pays for it.
The waitress disappears into the crowd, again.
Dred drinks some rum and coke.
Dred <-getting drunk slowly.
The DJ makes a smooth transition from Violent Femmes into a song by The B-52's.
You say, "I'm gonna get some laudanum back at my place, I'll be back in a minute"
home
You click your heels three times.
Gam-Bit's
press drink
Computer says, "What kind of drink could i get you?"
[Type a line of input or `@abort' to abort the command.]
You say, “laudanum”
You hear a humming and a drink appears out of nowhere.
whereis ajia
ajia (#41630) is in Club Dred (#50590).
@go #50590
A bouncer comes up to you and says, "Hey! Think you can crash the Club without paying, eh? Don't think so! Try using the door."
The Corner of Main Street and Queens Boulevard
A strange force deflects you from the destination.
nw
You go stand in line for a while, and eventually make it up to the door. A bouncer checks your id, and looks at you. He hmmms, and says "Alright, go on".
Club Dred
ajia, caprice, and Dred are here.
After the bouncer, you meet a man who looks at the stamp on your hand, and waves you in.
Dred says, "Laundry, I think."
ajia says, "I wouldn't recommend him"
caprice hugs you.
You say, "OOO. Thanks!"
caprice says, "why not?"
You say, "Why not..."
look vortex
poet boy who grew up on the beach, poem in head
It is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 plastic, unbreakable cup of laudanum
Dred drinks some rum and coke.
Dred laughs.
emote drinks laudanum
Dred says, "Check this out:"
caprice drinks some daquiri.
Dred | @with booga
Vortex drinks laudanum
caprice checks Dred out.
look dred
Dred
   You search the shadows in the place where you think he might be. Then, you find a vague shape which must be him. He senses your gaze, and steps out of the darkness. You see a medium sized man with long black hair which sways gently in the breeze. You can't see much more of him as he is covered with a black cloak, swirling about him in a dramatic manner, and a black fedora pulled low. But you do see his eyes:  you must turn away from that gaze, which seems to pierce you right to your innermost soul.
He proudly displays Dred's Official Helpful Person Badge.  He proudly displays Dred's Official Sick's Fan Club Presidential Badge
He is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 sai named "Mind"                        katana named "Sky"
 suit of chainmail                       staff named "Jijm"
 leather jacket                          broadsword named "Plexm"
 vambraces                               greaves
 skull-cap                               The Dred Case
 kite shield                             glass of rum and coke
ajia says, "what Dred?"
-------------------------------Dred------------------------------------
@with booga
Booga (#634) is at The Living Room (#17)
Zippy'sPiercedNipple (#47551)
Booga (#634)
Morpheus (#2957)
Bane (#50064)
Quantum-Vacuum (#53118)
Hagbard (#36271)
Eris (#24929)
Total there: 7.
-------------------------------Dred------------------------------------
ajia says, "what about it?"
Dred says, "The char, Zippy'sPiercedNipple."
Dred hehs.
You say, "whereis eris"
Dred thought it funny.
caprice says, "oh dear."
A chugging contest breaks out near the bar! "Chug!" "Chug!" "Chug!"
The DJ honors a request. He makes a smooth transition from The B-52's into a song by Dead Can Dance - Cantara.
caprice winks at you.
Dred wonders how Zippy is doing with the new piercing.
emote chuckles
Vortex chuckles
ajia says, "he's probably rife with infection"
Dred [to ajia]: Probably.
caprice says, "who is Zippy?"
You say, "Any of you know about the Bovine Illuminati?"
Dred [to Vortex]: Some, what do you want to know?
caprice says, "I know lots of things, but I dont think I've ever done cows."
Dred [to caprice]: A char. He's funny. Somewhat strange, but aren't we all.
You say, "Well, I know their initiation spot is near where I live now, at gam-bit's, not much else..."
caprice whispers, "So do you like having your thighs licked by horny girls?"
You say, "[to dred] what do you know?"
caprice smiles.
whisper caprice "yes"
I don't understand that.
You say, "Yes???"
Abigail hums as she passes by the tables.
The DJ decides to go metal! He makes a smooth transition from Dead Can Dance - Cantara into a song by Candlemass.
Dred [to Vortex]: Well, go to the atrium Go north, get accepted. Then go east from the atrium. The library with instructions is north.
caprice smiles at you.
emote smiles caprice
Vortex smiles caprice
emote winks caprice
Vortex winks caprice
ajia eyes caprice warily.
look caprice
caprice
...hormones from hell.
She is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 glass of daquiri
caprice says, "what a forward young man, you are, Vortex."
emote eyes ajia warily
Vortex eyes ajia warily
caprice smirks.
You say, "I don't know how to whisper, my dear"
You say, "And who's to say I'm really a boy?"
ajia LOL
caprice says, "that's ok...we're all friends."
Dred laughs.
You say, "good"
caprice nods at Dred.
The DJ honors a request. He makes a smooth transition from Candlemass into a song by Public Enemy.
A heavy seventies disco beat begins as caprice takes the floor, one hand pointing up as a mirrored ball descends from above. From on side, you come twirling into her arms.
You say, "Ah, how pleasant!"
ajia says, "how come it's so quiet in here?"
You say, "Stupid bowl sunday night"
Dred says, "Gee. I dunno. What could possibly be the reason?"
Dred grins.
Dred drinks some rum and coke.
emote sings stupid bowl sunday night
Vortex sings stupid bowl sunday night
You say, "here we go loop tee loo"
ajia needs something to cool her off
ajia says, "It was so warm here today"
The crowd on the dance floor shifts, as new people come in.
emote pours cool air on ajia
Vortex pours cool air on ajia
caprice kisses Vortex on the mouth in a wet, passionate kiss. The slurping noises deafen everyone in the room.
ajia [to Dred]: maybe an ice cube
You say, "MMMmmm  MMMMMmmm"
emote softly licks caprice's lips
Vortex softly licks caprice's lips
caprice says, "Fuck this lag. I'm outa here. bye...it was fun."
Dred wonders if caprice and Vortex would like a more private place. Like the dark corners that are found downstairs in the Video Room.
You say, "yeah...another time!"
caprice goes home.
down
The DJ decides to go metal! He makes a smooth transition from Public Enemy into a song by Black Sabbath.
ajia says, "bye, caprice"
emote drinks laudanum
You decide to take a look downstairs.
The Video Room
     The first thing you notice are the many large video screens on the walls. They flicker in the dark lighting of the room. The music from upstairs is piped down here, and is almost as loud as up there, too. The video screens show the music video for the song you are currently hearing. This room has some tables, where people can lounge and enjoy the videos. It is a lot smokier down here than upstairs, but much cozier too. There are a few people dancing down here, but not as much as upstairs. There is a narrow stairway leading up, to one side of the room.
You walk down the stairs, and immediately notice the huge video screens flickering in the darkness.
Vortex drinks laudanum
nw
You can't go that way.
ne
You can't go that way.
n
You can't go that way.
e
You can't go that way.
w
You can't go that way.
s
You can't go that way.
down
You can't go that way.
up
You walk up from the Video Room, your eyes glazed from staring at the videos, to join the main party upstairs.
Club Dred
Dred and ajia (asleep) are here.
Dred hmms.
You say, "not much action below"
Dred drinks some rum and coke.
emote drinks from his cup
Vortex drinks from his cup
Denis shows his stamp to the bouncer and enters the Club.
ajia wakes up. Apparently, she wasn't that drunk after all.
The DJ makes a smooth transition from Black Sabbath into a song by Front 242.
Denis says, "hi"
Dred [to ajia]: Oh good. I was worrying.
ajia says, "hi"
Dred waves to Denis.
ajia says, "sorry..I was disconnected"
Denis says, "I had trouble loggin back on."
Denis says, "was there trouble with the Moo?"
ajia says, "you missed an interesting guest, Denny"
Denis says, "was she cute?"
ajia says, "lots of lag"
Denis snickers.
ajia says, "she was rather unstable"
Sick walks into the Club as the bouncers wave him in without charge.
Denis waves at Sick.
ajia says, "hello, Sick"
The crowd suddenly gets quiet as everyone turns around and looks at one person. "Sick!", they all cheer in unison. They slowly go back to what they were doing before: partying!
Sick waves.
look sick
Sick
Sick is a wonderfully sick thing. He is wearing faded Guess blue-jeans and an old black Alice Cooper t-shirt, with black deck shoes. His medium length dark-blond (or is it light-brown?) hair is kept neatly in a ponytail in the back. His bluish/greenish eyes are framed by thin gold- and burgundy-rimmed eyeglasses, and his ears are adorned with matching stud earrings.  He proudly displays Sick's Official Sick Person Badge.  He has a plasma cannon strapped over his shoulder.  He has a hungry beast on a leash by his side.  He proudly displays Sick's Official Sick's Fan Club Membership Button.  "Quitting MOOing Now Greatly Reduces Serious Risks to Your Social Life."
A tattoo on Sick's forehead reads: 12:44 am


"just last night i was reminded of just how bad it had gotten and just how SICK i had become" -- Violent Femmes


He is awake and looks alert.
He is carrying Sick's Sick Player Class (asleep), Temp-class (asleep), Anonymous, Sick's black balloon, Sick's future @@who of the gods, and Future options.
Some guy jumps up on a table and drops his pants, mooning the entire club. But he jumps down and disappears before the bouncers can find him.
Denis says, "who is she...is she still on...can I net-bonk her?"
Sajia says, "I'm sure you could"
Sick says, "who is who?"
Denis hehs
ajia says, "maybe you should add her to your login watcher"
Denis says, "fuck you."
You say, "later, cyberos space friends"
Sick says, "WHO IS WHO, GODDAMMIT? DON'T YOU FUKN IGNORE ME!"
Dred waves.
ajia says, "bye, Vortex"
Denis waves at you.
@go #17
The waitress takes your drinks as you leave.
The Living Room
Mack-the-Worm (dozing) (not paying much attention), Booga, Hagbard (thinking of something witty to say), phule, Sim, and Trystan are here.
phule says, "its okay, sim, so do I."
phule is new too, sort of.
Trystan <- old
phule says, "how old, Tryst?"
You say, "LINT BASH MARSH AND MUKKA YUKKA"
phule waves to vortex.
look phule
Sim waves to vortedx.
Trystan [to phule]: You mean how old in RL, or how long I've been here?
phule
A person who should describe herself. She has clothes, and a hat.  She is wearing comfy jeans, and a button down shirt is draped over her shoulders, (not buttoned) over a green t-shirt.  She looks somewhat wise despite her phulishness.
She is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 staff named "Mako"                      Phule's Gold
 staff                                   Phule's money
Booga <- ancient
siphule says, "which did you mean?"
A new MOO. Detailed description forthcoming.
He is awake and looks alert.
Sim wishes he could type
phule grins at booga.
Sim says, "Well, okay...my ego's not beyond asking for help. You old ones, what's the quickest, easiest way to get to know your way around here? Just lock yourself in a room and read helps for a week?"
Booga smiles at phule.
phule thinks she will not use caps anymore.
Trystan [to phule]: Well, both I guess.  I've been here a little over a year, and by local standards 27 is old too.
Booga [to Sim]: No, just explore and use help as you need it.
Sim is 27 also.
Cockatoo squawks, "Yuppers Skee-doo!!""
Vortex winks at phule:  why not
Cockatoo squawks, "program your way to jail!!"
Sim nods. Thanks.
phule is only 24, so hahahaha.
Wizkid comes out of the closet (so to speak...).
Wizkid has disconnected.
phule says, "why not what?"
Booga is 22 and has been here for +2 years.
You say, "wink!"
Wizkid has connected.
phule says, "wow, you have been here a while."
phule winks?
Booga nods to phule.
look booga
phule says, "hi Wiz."
Booga
Short and stout with bluish gray hair that is piled flawlessly on top of her head in a bun.  Bifocals perched on the end of her nose.  She looks like a librarian and is very unappealing, clad in such a tasteless string bikini.  She has a picture of a Holstein tatooed across her chest and the letters PARC branded into her rear.
She is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 machete named "Zucchini"                greaves
 kite shield                             Chocolate
 suit of chainmail                       audit toy
 vambraces                               list
 skull-cap                               The System Object
Sim says, "Wow...this place is weird. I've never been on one of these things before..."
Wizkid says, "hello phule"
The_Blue_Wizard The air shimmers, then a blinding flash of light, which is quickly enveloped in a billowing smoke. As the smoke clears, a blue-cloaked guy appears.
The_Blue_Wizard waves
Sim is suddenly embarrassed by his naivete
You say, "Where y'all from?"
Booga waves to The_Blue_Wizard.
Ghoti enters the room through a little door which you hadn’t noticed before. The door CREAKS closed, and blends invisibly in with the wallpaper.
phule says, "CO."
Sim says, "I'm in Saratoga, California."
phule waves to tbw
Booga <- California
phule says, "hi Ghoti."
Ghoti teleports out.
The_Blue_Wizard says, "Hi Ghoti!"
You say, "Where CO? I"m heading to Santa Cruz on wednesday. Howz weather?"
Wizkid is from Kansas
phule says, "sunny and cloudless today."
The_Blue_Wizard is lounging in NY...
phule says, "Ft. Collins."
Booga says, "weather's great... nice and sunny, but still a chill in the air."
Sim says, "I'll second that."
The_Blue_Wizard says, "Snow, snow, snow!!!!!"
You say, "Mas illuvia?"
Wizkid exits to the north.
phule says, "huh?"
You say, "It has been raining a lot in northern califas..."
Mack-the-Worm finishes handling an unknown woman's underwear
The_Blue_Wizard says, "Gotta go....bye!"
Booga eyes Mack-the-Worm warily.
The_Blue_Wizard waves
phule checks to be sure she has some...
phule says, "bye!"
The_Blue_Wizard goes home.
Vortex waves
Mack-the-Worm is a slug
You say, "What're you looking for phule?"
phule says, "making sure that MtW is not handling my underwear..."
phule grins sheepishly, then remembers she is not a sheep.
You say, "Oh. Where in colorado you?"
Mack-the-Worm says uncaringly,  "Naw..this underwear was wet..fresh from a washing machine"
phule says, "ah, not mine then."
phule says, "Fort Collins."
Mack-the-Worm says uncaringly,  "Not unless you use the same washing machine I do"
uphule hopes you don't live in her apartment, because you owe rent if you do...
You say, "Bien. When I lived in Boulder I sometimes listened to radio station in Ft. C"
phule says, "we have more than one now.  you used to live here, or go to CU?"
phule wonders about the logic in the latter half of that sentance.
You say, "went to Naropa Institute"
Mack-the-Worm [to Sim]: What's with your name?
phule says, "ah.  where is that?"
Rumprump [Mack-the-Worm becomes Mack-the-Knife]
You say, "Boulder"
Sim says, "Um...my name? Something wrong with it?"
phule says, "hmmm. never heard of it."
Sim says, "It's not taken or anything, is it?"
Mack-the-Knife [to Sim]: Nope..just wondering what it meant!
You say, "Jack Kerouac School of Disembodied Poetics!"
phule grins.
Booga smiles.
emotes laughs
I don't understand that.
phule is ready to fall asleep.  goodnight all!
Sim says, "Well, the ORIGIN of the name is a little obscure, but it's a name I sort of write songs under."
You say, "It's true. A buddhist college..."
You say, "Time emotes laughs"
Booga exclaims, "Goodnight, phule!"
phule says, "very cool, sim."
You say, "time to sleep in Albany NY"
You say, "later,"
Booga . o O ( LAG )
phule waves.
Mack-the-Knife missed the part about sim's name...connection change
emote waves to all g'night
home
Guest teleports in.
phule says, "I hate lag, btw"
Vortex waves to all g'night
You click your heels three times.
Gam-Bit's
@quit
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.




*




Amberstorm puts some wood in the fireplace.
Mineral says, "so i gather!!  was't cool?"
Corwin sneaks out when you're not looking.
Amberstorm puts some wood in the fireplace.
The dazzling rainbow bridge reappears, Corwin steps on, turns and waves, then disappears in a flash of color.
Mineral whispers, "let's go switz."
You say, "Well, yes, very cool, though there's much to say about The Event"
Amberstorm throws a match into the fireplace and the fire rapidly catches.
Mineral waves bye
You say, "Let's go, yes. "
Amberstorm says, "Bye!"
Mineral goes home.
whereis mineral
The housekeeper arrives to remove A note from Mirage from The Living Room.
Mineral (#50669) is in The Idea of Switzerland (#53048).
@go #53048
The Idea of Switzerland
Mineral is here.
Mineral sits down on the the black Bauhaus sofa.
Mineral says, "have a seat"
emote sits down with mineral
Vortex sits down with mineral
You say, "Whew"
You say, "I'm just out of bed:  1230!"
Mineral says, "so whassup?  katie sent me the bflo. sched."
You say, "Yep. I got 3 letters from Juliana. Need to write poetix statement"
Mineral says, "i wanna go but i see it's not a wkend event--i'll try to do vacation time"
Mineral says, "juliana?"
You say, "What's up?  Gotta read Lefebvre  before 6 tonight. uck."
You say, "J Spahr is putting the conf together w/p gizzi"
Mineral says, "ahhh."
Mineral says, "did you get the moomail i sent u?"
You say, "met r anton wilson & have been reading illuminatus!"
You say, "yes, got moo mail"
You say, "though can't remember what it said"
Mineral says, "i'm trying to like yeats via doc. seminar w/ ml rosenthal--not having much luck..."
Mineral says, "i don't remember either"
You say, "Hm. Albany is a weird place to live, but i liked coming back here. will be in"
Mineral says, "lost yr last message"
You say, "whoops. I'll be in SC june-july to make poetry vid mag"
You say, "Have you ever been to my house out here?”
Mineral picks up Mineral's poetry pad.


look


You say, "hello?”


@home
@quit
Connection closed by foreign host.




*




You say, "I'm ready to quit school"
Mineral says, "got everybody down...take what you can use & try to take the rest"
You say, "thanks. "
Mineral says, "that's how i felt abt. psychoanalytic theory"
You say, "What speaks to me in the marxist strain isn't what everyone else is interested in"
You say, "It's tough being a buddhist poet in the acadam"
You say, "I feel like i'm laying down in the macadam!"
Mineral says, "i really don't think that the expectation in these courses is that you'll get some kind of comprehensive/specialist understanding..."
You say, "yeah, it's sheer oppression as far as i can tell. are you at home?"
You say, "tell me about yr poetry pad"
Mineral says, "there really is lotsa room for marxism there.. one of my favrit profs (died this spring of liquor at abt. age 37) was marx/lacan"
You say, "are you in the bovine illuminati?"
Mineral says, "yeah, I'm at home...you can write on the poetry pad with the noteditor"
Mineral says, "no..."
You say, "don't know about note editor. wd you like to try to go to my place?"
Mineral says, "or you can read it with 'read pad'"
read pad
COMPLAINT


I brung you gifts of gold
and kerosene and beer
I brung you Ne-Mo's banana cakettes
you flung them in the abyss


--Mineral
(You finish reading)
Mineral says, "yeah. you first"
You say, "ok. if you get bounced out i'll meet you back here in a couple of minutes."




You say, "I'm going now"
emote blows a kiss
Vortex blows a kiss
Mineral says, "ok"
home
You click your heels three times.
Gam-Bit's
Gam-bit's home, there is a lounge chair and an enchanted futon for you to sit on. There is a talking drink dispenser (if you want a drink just type PRESS DRINK)
You see X-Jet and Vortex's Safe here.
Gam-Bit (asleep) is here.
The wall twists and groans as it tries to force itself into the shape of Mineral. With a crack it snaps back into shape.
You say, "are you here?"
You sense that Mineral is looking for you in The Idea of Switzerland.
He pages, "it bounced me.  you need to get gam to unlock it"
shout ok
I don't understand that.
east
You can't go that way.
w
You can't go that way.
up
You can't go that way.
down
You can't go that way.
n
You can't go that way.
s
You can't go that way.
whereis mineral
Cary (#50669) is in The Idea of Switzerland (#53048).
@go #53048
The Idea of Switzerland
Cary is here.
Cary says, "yo man"
You say, "who's cary?"
look day-glo discman
A portable CD player molded of searing orange, green, and yellow plastic. It is playing "Sex Head" from "Best of the Pooh Sticks".
You say, "what other records you got?"
Cary says, "it's me.  i have morphs now that i'm a super-schmoo"
Cary says, "you can be one too if you want"
You say, "congrats. what or where do you want to go?"
Cary says, "i only got one record cause they're a pain to make"
**
You say, "let's go to the living room"
Cary says, "ok"
%(Property not found) turns into %(Property not found). Just like that. [Cary becomes Mineral]
@go #17
The Living Room
Hagbard, Rusty (busy about many things), Porcupine (asleep), Primate's_Stick, and Guest are here.
Mineral teleports in.
whereis ajia
ajia (#41630) is in kitchen garden (#20242).
The housekeeper arrives to cart Porcupine off to bed.
Hagbard waves his hand and appears to distort and fall away from you.
Green_Knight rides in on his green horse and towers over you.  His four foot tall axe blade doesn't look too pleasing.
Green_Knight slides open the glass door to the deck and slips out, sliding it closed behind it.


whisper [mineral] now where?
I don't understand that.
You say, "now where, rjp?"
The cuckoo clock begins making a small whirring noise.
>> Cuckoo! <<
You hear a small click coming from the cuckoo clock.
Mineral whispers, "hmm"
Mineral whispers, "hot tub"
You say, "walk?"
You say, "where is h-tub?"
Mineral attempts to walk through the plate-glass windows!  Fortunately, they're tougher than that.
Mineral slides open the glass door to the deck and slips out, sliding it closed behind him.
west
The Living Room
Rusty (busy about many things), Primate's_Stick, and Guest are here.
east
You can't go that way.
n
The Entrance Hall
You sense that Mineral is looking for you in The Hot Tub.
He pages, "join me"
whereis mineral
Mineral (#50669) is in The Hot Tub (#388).
@go #388
The Hot Tub
The hot tub is made of molded fiberglass: on three sides a bench will seat five comfortably (and ten who are friendly), and on the fourth side there is contoured couch for one luxurious soak.  There are two rubber mounted buttons here.  You may push either the right or left button.  Steam billowing up from the tub makes the bright stars twinkle more and the dim stars fade to obscurity.  The underwater light is on.  The bubbling jets are on.
You see thermometer here.
Mineral is here.
Aaaahhhh!  The water is at that perfect temperature where you can just lie in here forever.
Splash!
emote sighs
Vortex sighs
You say, "gate gate paragate parasamgate bodhi svaha!"
Mineral says, "pretty dead in the living room.  anyway, do you wanna be a schmoo?"
Rusty pages, "the H-tub is se from the living room"
You say, "i'm game for schmoo"
look thermometer
This thermometer was designed for underwater operation.  It reads in both Fahrenheit and Celsius, with a Kelvin adjustment on the side.  The reading is 105F, 40C (313K).
whereis eris
Eris (#24929) is in 1934 Buick (#29514).
emote blows bubbles on the surface
Vortex blows bubbles on the surface
emote needs laudanum
Vortex needs laudanum
You say, "I'm going home - quickly - to get some laudanum. want some?"
Mineral says, "sorry.. I need to look something up.  hang on a sec"
Mineral says, "ok"
You say, "I'll be back quick"
home
You click your heels three times.
Gam-Bit's
Gam-Bit (asleep) is here.
press drink
Computer says, "What kind of drink could i get you?"
[Type a line of input or `@abort' to abort the command.]
You say, “laudanum”
You hear a humming and a drink appears out of nowhere.
press drink
Computer says, "What kind of drink could i get you?"
[Type a line of input or `@abort' to abort the command.]
You say, “another laudanum”
You hear a humming and a drink appears out of nowhere.
look vortex
poet boy who grew up on the beach, poem in head
It is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 plastic, unbreakable cup of laudanum
 plastic, unbreakable cup of another laudanum
whereis mineral
Mineral (#50669) is in The Hot Tub (#388).
@go #388
The Hot Tub
Mineral is here.
emote gives laudanum to mineral
Vortex gives laudanum to mineral
emote takes a big gulp
Vortex takes a big gulp
You say, "BOM SHANKAR!"
You say, "shall i raise a toast?"
look mineral
Mineral
Long and lean, wearing maroon suede boots, a Mott the Hoople t-shirt,
yellow bellbottom cords, and a black patchwork leather car coat.  Around his neck is a fossil eurypterid pendant on a long lanyard.  His 4-finger diamond-chip ring spells out the word "Desire."
He is awake and looks alert.
Mineral says, "yes"
You say, "Long live Gargoyle Mechanique! Long live life! Long live Shiva! Bom!"
Mineral says, "yes!"
emote raises unbreakable cup of laudanum
Vortex raises unbreakable cup of laudanum
You say, "To ourselves, our fecundity!"
Mineral says, "i don't seem to have any laudanum, or at least it's not showing on me"
You say, "i noticed. maybe take it from me? i have 2 unbreakable cups"
Mineral says, "i can't even see it.  may have an invisible lock on it?  did you make it?"
You say, "I WANNA BE ANARCHY"
look vortex
Guest steps into the tub from the deck.
Splash!
I don't know which "vortex" you mean.
look vortex omaly
I see no "vortex omaly" here.
look vortex
I don't know which "vortex" you mean.
look
The Hot Tub
Mineral and Guest are here.
look Vortex
I don't know which "Vortex" you mean.
Guest turns off the bubbling jets.
Guest turns off the tub light.
You say, "now I can't see myself. But I did at a point have the drinks"
Guest turns on the tub light.
Guest turns on the bubbling jets in the tub.
look guest
By definition, Guest appears nondescript.
It is awake and looks alert.
Mineral says, "weird.  maybe they're room-locked.  anyway, come back to switz a moment"
Mineral goes home.
whereis mineral
You say, "ok"
Mineral (#50669) is in The Idea of Switzerland (#53048).
@go #53048
The Idea of Switzerland
Mineral is here.
You say, "I"m still real rookie in mooland & have no serious instructions "
Mineral says, "anyway, i think to be a schmoo all you need is to typoe ‘@parents vortex is #4803’"
Mineral says, "try it"
You say, "i'm trying to use moo as compositional device. some success"
You say, “ok"
@parents vortex is #43803
Vortex (#50457) has no "parents" message to set.
Mineral says, "dja get anything?"
vortex has no parents message to set
You say, "sez 'vortex has no parents message to set’"
Mineral says, "hmmm....lemme think"
You say, "hung out with hakim bey, r anton wilson & nick herbert the other nite"
Mineral says, "i'm gonna look at yr parents"
You say, "I'd like to look at yr parents!"
You say, "when are we moving to montana?"
Mineral says, "sounds very cool"
Mineral says, "i thought it was minnesota!  or wuz it wisconsin?"
Mineral says, ""how are you getting to buffalo on the 30?"
Mineral says, "sometimes MOOnication is like tennis with 3 balls in play at once"
You say, "Belle's driving. Am trying to set up niteclub gig. You innerested?"
You say, "yes, optic yellow too. "
Mineral says, "yes!! where? nietzsche's?"
You say, "That's one place i know of. juliana gave names of 2 others too"
Mineral says, "i'd love to do that"
Mineral says, "what r they?"
You say, "OK. Katie gave a cynical response, so maybe she's out. or maybe in. who knows"
Mineral says, "what r the other 2?"
You say, "now i have it:  Art Dialogue Gallery & The Curve"
Mineral says, "dunno them.  must be new since i left"
You say, "I'll call soon. & let you know."
You say, "When you going away?"
Mineral says, "i'm leaving fri, but => Dad has compuserv--i'll still be in the net"
Mineral says, "bummed i'm gonna miss you here"
You say, "Cool. You can prolly telnet to cunyvm. St Mark's I'm reading at in may as well. A feature. "
Mineral says, "EGGGZELENT"
You say, "I think i shd get off line now. sheet to do & teach @ 10am. So let's say a nar a"
You say, "I'll be back in touch soon"
Mineral says, "ok--i'll try to figger out how to schmoo you"
You say, "It's great you have modem at home. One nite let's do this for real. OK?"
Mineral says, "cool"
You say, "Going bye now"
Mineral byes vortex
emote cyberhugs mineral ( )
Vortex cyberhugs mneral ( )
You say, "love to you my friend"
"Mineral says, "love fer sure--later"
You say, "hasta luego"
home
You click your heels three times.
Gam-Bit's
@quit
A little door opens and a small robot comes zipping out. It takes the plastic, unbreakable cup of laudanum from you, and shoots on back into the hole, which closes behind it.
A little door opens and a small robot comes zipping out. It takes the plastic, unbreakable cup of another laudanum from you, and shoots on back into the hole, which closes behind it.
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.




*




create BOM SHANKAR


Sorry, the karma wheel is still turning, please try to create again in a few moments.
create BOM SHANKAR
*** Created ***
I'm being john by happily and methanol.  Perhaps big is peggy, jealous of methanol?
You say, “perhaps”
Stop fidgeting, you're bothering the others.
emote gassho
Stop fidgeting, you're bothering the others.
You say, “I”
You are empty-handed.
Meditate, or die.


help
You are too restless to continue meditation.  Come back later.
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.




*




I.


telnet cheshire.oxy.edu 7777
Trying 134.69.1.253...
Connected to cheshire.oxy.edu.
Escape character is '^]'.


Shhhhhhh......




Amid the smell of incense and the sound of gongs and chanting, you have
come upon the glorious Zen MOO.  Please be quiet, and enjoy your meditation.


If you have performed meditation before, type:
    connect <your meditation name> <your meditation password>


If you wish to join the mediation and are new, type:
    create <a meditation name> <a meditation password>


But type softly!


create BOM SHANKAR
Sorry, the karma wheel is still turning, please try to create again in a few moments.
create BOM SHANKAR
Sorry, the karma wheel is still turning, please try to create again in a few moments.
create BOM SHANKAR
*** Created ***
I'm being john by happily and methanol.  Perhaps big is peggy, jealous of methanol?
You say, "perhaps”
Stop fidgeting, you're bothering the others.
emote gassho
Stop fidgeting, you're bothering the others.
You say, “I”
You are empty-handed.
Meditate, or die.


help
You are too restless to continue meditation.  Come back later.
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.






R zt zfrit i ft


emote sits
The keyboard is sure to block your mind.




emote breathes through his nose
Stop fidgeting, you're bothering the others.


Thinking say it better to byteme asdf with who than to magic for georgeofthejungle.




Answer the following riddle, quickly.
Enter a verb, if you will...
You say, “type”
Thank you, wise one.


A gong sounds quietly and a voice intones, "AnandaMetteya has joined the meditation."
emote gassho
The keyboard is sure to block your mind.


A gong sounds quietly and a voice intones, "AnandaMetteya leaves our meditation."
You say, “e”
Once a student typed too much and died.
You say, “w”


You say, “u”
Once a student typed too much and died.
You say, “e”
We all dog is but neither do we life run.
You are too restless to continue meditation.  Come back later.
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.










thor% telnet cheshire.oxy.edu 7777
Trying 134.69.1.253...
Connected to cheshire.oxy.edu.


Shhhhhhh......




connect BOM SHANKAR
You recently meditated.  Rest and try again later.
look
I don't understand that.  Valid commands at this point are
   Help, Who, COnnect, CReate, Quit, UPtime, or Version
uptime
The server has been up for 4 days, 14 minutes, and 49 seconds.




Shhhhhhh......




help


Shhhhhhh......




readme
I don't understand that.  Valid commands at this point are
   Help, Who, COnnect, CReate, Quit, UPtime, or Version
version
The MOO is currently running version 1.7.0 of the LambdaMOO server code.
who
Name            Idle            Total Idle      Total Connect   Percent Idle
------------    -------    ------------    ------------    ------------
hobbit          31 seconds      18 minutes      an hour         25%
Alms            7 minutes       14 minutes      15 minutes      92%
Shmendric       15 seconds      35 minutes      37 minutes      92%
shade           a minute        an hour         an hour         77%




Shhhhhhh......




quit
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.




II.


thor% telnet lambda.parc.xerox.com 8888


CO marble erati
*** Connected ***
Last connected Sat Jan 30 16:10:11 1993 PST from 128.204.1.114
**
whereis ajia
ajia (#41630) is in ajia's teahouse (#49341).
@go49341
I don't understand that.
@go #49341
Ajia's teahouse
a four-tatami teahouse whose doors open to a sparse japanese-style garden. A teapot sits upon a brazier located in the center of the room.The air in the teahouse is cool, and the tranquil scent of jasmine mingles with that of the tea. Few guests request tea, as the teahouse serves as a front for ajia's massage parlor. All the masseurs have gone home for the day, to cook dinner for their wives. In the corner, stands ajia's overpaid assistant, a scantily-clad adonis, whose only appreciable skills are to add decoration to the room, and refill ajia's coffee (no sugar, just a dash of milk.)  A sliding wood and frosted glass door exits to the southeast.  A sliding door leads into the teahouse from here.
Sick, Star, ajia, and Foobies are here.
Star has been sick so she hasn’t mooed much...not up to it.
ajia asks, "who's a schmoo?"
ajia [to Star]: you?
Sick [to ajia]: yes, her.
Sick points accusingly at Star.
look marble
You see a player who should type '@describe me as ...'.
It is awake and looks alert.
Foobies [to ajia]: I think they all went to SanFran instead of Arcadia (or wherever it is you live) because they are trying to ditch you
ajia [to Star]: you're not SSPC...all the advantages of schmoo and more?
Sick [to Marble]: hello.
look star
Star
A women with apparent knowledge behind her blue eyes who (none the less) watches Sesame Street whenever whe can. She looks happy and confused...and she is (of course) blowing off too much homework as usual... = )  She is clad in purple jeans and a purple sweater ( her favorite color of course! ) And on her feet are her infamous Fuzzy slippers.  She has just returned from vacation, so her typing is a bit slow.
She is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 Pouch                                   A small Quimby doll


You say, "hello Sick"
ajia [to Foobies]: Arcata--and you're probably right
look sick
Sick
Sick is a wonderfully sick thing. He is wearing faded Guess blue-jeans and an old black Alice Cooper t-shirt, with black deck shoes. His medium length dark-blond (or is it light-brown?) hair is kept neatly in a ponytail in the back. His bluish/greenish eyes are framed by thin gold- and burgundy-rimmed eyeglasses, and his ears are adorned with matching stud earrings.  He proudly displays Sick's Official Sick Person Badge.  "Jesus built my car. It's a love affair; mainly Jesus and my hotrod."
A tattoo on Sick's forehead reads: 10:07 pm


"you thought i was SICK of you, but i'm just SICK" -- Ned's Atomic Dustbin


He is awake and looks alert.
He is carrying Sick's Sick Player Class (asleep), Temp-class (asleep), and FOO player class (asleep).
ajia says, "hello, Marble"
Star [to ajia]: ??????
Foobies says, "Hey, Marble"
Star says, "hi"
A largish 29 cent postage stamp floats into the room and fattens up into Dred.
Sick [to Dred]: HELLO
Foobies says, "I am going to go for a bit. I may be back. If not, I’ll be on tomorrow"
You say, "Cretins to everyone"
Dred hehs.
Star says, "bye"
Dred [to Sick]: HELLO
Foobies says, "So long, suckahs"
Foobies has disconnected.
You say, "Hail Eris"
ajia laughs at Dred
Sick laughs
Sick | #1467687 and #1467688
Sick decides on those.
Dred [to Sick]: Frick and Frack
ajia [to Sick]: wait...that was Foobs!
Dred grins at ajia
look
Ajia's teahouse
Dred, ajia, Sick, Star (distracted), and Foobies (asleep) are here.
Sick asks, "?"
ajia [to Sick]: he thought of those
look ajia
ajia
a petite, amerasian woman, with dark hair that brushes her shoulders, and a small but full red mouth. Her large brown eyes are expressive, and in them you sense she has made up her mind to be resolute. She is impervious to the 'charms' of fickle people. She is continually wearing basic black, because now that clothes are supposed to express the inner you, dressing is always a problem.
She is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 teacup                                  booboo doll resembling Mole
 A dozen red roses for ajia from Dred    Icepick
Star says, "bye"
Dred grins.
Sick says, "oh"
Dred waves to Star.
Sick [to Star]: bye
Star says, "bye"
ajia says, "bye, Star"
look star
Star goes home.
I see no "star" here.
Sick | 'star i was just kidding. i don't really hate you cos you're a schmoo.
Sick | A band of star dust surrounds you and your words are instantaneously whisked off to Star.
You say, "What's up people?"
Dred [to Sick]: You like the numbers? heh
ajia says, "we seem to be busy offending people"
Dred [to ajia]: piss off. No we're not.


You say, "AH, aum Shiva..."
Sick | @create generic bird named #1467687
Dred [to Sick]: You did not!
Dred laughs.
Sick laughs
Sick [to Marble]: aum Shiva? uh?
ajia asks, "aum Shiva? uh? huh?"


You say, "Shiv"
Sick pretends to understand.
You say, "Shiva's gonna come covered in ashes, on his throne cart brighter than Disneyland!!"
Dred asks, "Hindu, eh?"
ajia asks, "Shiva as in the hindu god?"
The housekeeper arrives to cart Foobies off to bed.
ajia blames the lag on Shiva
-------------------------------Sick------------------------------------
@who shiva
Name           Disconn Last G Location Class    Hometown
-------------- ------- ---- - -------- -------- --------
Shiva (#50446) 64d ago 1h   n Kokomo   $builder (none)


Total 1 player.
- End of paste.
You say, ""Bom Shankar!"
Sick will @gag Marble if he doesn't start making sense.
home
You click your heels three times.
The Beach
@quit
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.




III.


DolphKnob falls asleep.
A gong sounds quietly and a voice intones, "DolphKnob leaves our meditation."
Splut spray music, givertakerness lofty music lofty with splut being babelfish spray, music.
You say, “o”
Will you stop the infernal racquet and meditate!?


Name            Idle            Total Idle      Total Connect   Percent Idle
------------    ------------    ------------    ------------    ------------
BOM             0 seconds       10 minutes      12 minutes      78%
dodo            3 seconds       6 minutes       7 minutes       81%
snid            3 minutes       21 minutes      25 minutes      83%
shade           9 minutes       2 hours         3 hours         78%
Elric           an hour         2 hours         3 hours         54%
hobbit          an hour         an hour         2 hours         57%




A gong sounds quietly and a voice intones, "Cherag has joined the meditation."
Most splut and lofty are better splut than foolishly sex.
A gong sounds quietly and a voice intones, "Cherag leaves our meditation."
A gong sounds quietly and a voice intones, "hobbit leaves our meditation."
A gong sounds quietly and a voice intones, "Mara has joined the meditation."
You say, “top”


I'd rather window word than splut zaphod, as lynne splut.
Enlightenment does not come from typing.


Top Meditators as of Fri Feb 12 19:33:59 1993 PST.
Name                Total Idle          Total Connect       Percent
-----------        ------------        ------------        ------------
AnandaMetteya       2 hours             2 hours             82%
shade               an hour             2 hours             79%
Isamu               an hour             2 hours             86%
BiteMe              an hour             an hour             99%
Shmendric           56 minutes          59 minutes          94%
Elric               55 minutes          2 hours             34%
viper               48 minutes          49 minutes          96%
lethe               45 minutes          54 minutes          84%
kessura             41 minutes          42 minutes          95%
Yogi                41 minutes          42 minutes          97%
pontifle            39 minutes          43 minutes          89%
shaedra             38 minutes          an hour             63%
Dream               35 minutes          an hour             46%
shhmoo              34 minutes          35 minutes          94%
PurpleHaze          33 minutes          41 minutes          80%
auzzie              28 minutes          45 minutes          62%
goimon              27 minutes          30 minutes          91%
Zen                 26 minutes          29 minutes          90%
Serotonin           26 minutes          28 minutes          94%
fenris              26 minutes          27 minutes          95%


A gong sounds quietly and a voice intones, "dodo leaves our meditation."
Lllupp utlt uuu psll lp pplltt


Eeep shade monsterous, truck lynne monsterous splut with lofty splut truly shade, monsterous.




A gong sounds quietly and a voice intones, "Fever has joined the meditation."
I say whoiue, you say truck, I say splut, you say lofty, let's agree upon following.


Truck is unto splut for splut.


Lsp uslpt l lussp uptl psltl
Mara fidgets excessively.


A gong sounds quietly and a voice intones, "Mara leaves our meditation."
Uuuu t tlpu tt plsltll ttlslt u tsups sp sut ptsppps ptupuut sllltls u


Lutpul
Answer the following riddle, quickly.
window is most unlike. . .
Sad, so sad when you fall asleep like that.  Tsk Tsk.
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.




*




I.


A gong sounds quietly and a voice intones, "Hassan has joined the meditation."


You will would fry for yucky, that is, not for would know, nor would soft, but would fry (in yellow).


Aaagg aemms mams sm ag
Hassan mumbles something.


I can't gren dickhead typing, nor night drink.
Will you key in an adjective?
You say, “blue”
Thank you wise one.
@who
Your typing detracts from your enlightenment.
Name            Idle            Total Idle      Total Connect   Percent Idle
-------    ------------    ------------    ------------    ------------
Hassan          52 seconds      4 minutes       5 minutes       96%
BOM             0 seconds       20 minutes      37 minutes      54%
Aardvark        40 minutes      an hour         2 hours         55%
Chadric         6 minutes       an hour         an hour         98%
Tapin           58 minutes      5 hours         8 hours         67%
    * == Bodhisatva     % == Master    $ == Novice


A gong sounds quietly and a voice intones, "Chadric leaves our meditation."
Kyd knows salaam.  However, boink does not know Kyd is dog.
A gong sounds quietly and a voice intones, "Tapin leaves our meditation."
Aardvark mumbles something.


I've lost wonderingly for beating.


We all shitty boiled but neither do we groat interesting.


Hassan mumbles something.
I es sune sssrs snre rs


We all out lets but neither do we blue leaves.
Aardvark mumbles something.


Boink tells soft that with is not interesting.  Nor is short most.


My staying swimming is long all for canada slow mountain red, falling.
Enter a noun please:
You say, “dog”
Thank you wise one.


Sparring does meditationa, all amplifier meditationa quick with iff bob kill does, meditationa.
A gong sounds quietly and a voice intones, "Aardvark leaves our meditation."


I say buddhanatur, you say yllow, I say wind, you say quiet, let's agree upon catnip.
You say, “Yellow”
Enlightenment does not require a keyboard.


I say potjun, you say blue, I say meditate, you say blue, let's agree upon hazaa.
A gong sounds quietly and a voice intones, "Random has joined the meditation."


Whyfore the the for Stjarna, ask I you.
My declinate north is your hatty for practice becuause tosses boo, stinkynigge.
Sad, so sad when you fall asleep like that.  Tsk Tsk.
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.










You will knowledge don't for most, that is, not for knowledge slowly, nor knowledge lox, but knowledge don't (in major).


My truth grows is amazing smith for bugsy turn lisa green, pin.


A gong sounds quietly and a voice intones, "R leaves our meditation."


Department say it better to eat responds with speaks than to living for you.


A gong sounds quietly and a voice intones, "lysander has joined the meditation."
A gong sounds quietly and a voice intones, "lysander leaves our meditation."


Until fof nothing will know but for ing if blue has any god to say about weidnersch.
What is the nature of spam?
You say, “ham, damn”
Thank you wise one.




Kdjdf equals sad and sad equals funny but kdjdf does not equal funny.
You say, “right and left.”
Meditate, or die.


GrassHopper knows fred.  However, Isabel does not know GrassHopper is green.




I can't help fleeting slack, nor laugh aahz.


You say, “AH”
Stop fidgeting, you're bothering the others.


Ggnenen ennn e egggrng ee




Eheeos hhho oh hes hees ehee o hhoes soeseo seehss esshsss sse




emote drips snot
Will you stop the infernal racquet and meditate!?
scooby mumbles something.
Mu uses dart to disgrace most uh, quiet gets revenge with silly.




I slowly but you eat so maybe niggers is not red for yvonne, or sting.  Maybe life bite with green.




Played thinks you are his, but not zen because that would mean cinder is not cry nor blueberry.


@who
Meditate, or die.
Name       Idle            Total Idle      Total Connect   Percent Idle
-------    ------------    ------------    ------------    ------------
BOM             0 seconds       60 minutes      an hour         73%
scooby          29 minutes      2 hours         2 hours         72%
    * == Bodhisatva     % == Master    $ == Novice


Can harry said, upper said taking and doing empty bother error.




You say, “Harry is dead”
Stop fidgeting, you're bothering the others.
Mirth kills RAMDOS swiftly, like a plenty.  Thusly, solemnly is shocked most sharp.




You will the best for asshole, that is, not for the slack, nor the blue, but the best (in tell).




You know what a that does to shame.  Tell me what happens with frazzle.
You say, “Sizzles in your mouth”
Thank you wise one.




I wine but you gsgg so maybe blindingly is not sure for death, or arirign.  Maybe ice biden with love.




Ooyyff y t lot yy ffoy


scooby mumbles something.


Cool is unto liking for is.
@look
Meditate, or die.


I believe wool would forget, if loofus is not elephant, as it should not be.


If hard were tree, show me what pleased would be.
You will from bkrbmage for stains, that is, not for from bonds, nor from amore, but from bkrbmage (in compute).


emotes rains
Your fingers will destroy your meditation.


Sad, so sad when you fall asleep like that.  Tsk Tsk.
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.




II.


thor% telnet lambda.parc.xerox.edu 8888
lambda.parc.xerox.edu: Unknown host
thor% telnet lambda.parc.xerox.com 8888
Trying 13.2.116.36...
Connected to lambda.parc.xerox.com.
connect vortex omaly
*** Connected ***
Gam-Bit's
You see X-Jet and Vortex's Safe here.
Gam-Bit (asleep) is here.
Last connected Thu Feb 18 14:36:43 1993 PST from thor.albany.edu
There's a new edition of the newspaper.  Type 'news' to see it.
There is new activity on the following lists:
    *smut                       703 new messages
news
It's the current issue of the LambdaMOO Times, dated Thu Feb 11, 1993.


POWER FAILURE
There was a power failure Wednesday Feb 10 at about 8 PM LST; all database changes (including mail, etc.) since 03:30 AM were lost. Thursday AM, LambdaMOO was up briefly and crashed again with a memory parity error.


@go #17
The Living Room
yndrd, Marcus_Aurelius (out on [Marcus_Aureliuspp] feet), Plaid_Guest, and Babette are here.
whereis leigh-cheri
Leigh-Cheri (#53476) is in Academy (#91).
@go #91
Academy
The main entrance to the Academy is an imposing room. Ornate marble columns reach to the ceiling far above, ancient statues strike various poses in the corners and intricate tapestries depicting scenes of long ago hang from the walls. A gloomy corridor goes east while a more cheery one goes south. Glass double-doors to the north have the word 'Library' stencilled on them in gold lettering and little hooded men constantly scurry up and down some stone steps leading down.
Contents:
  List of the Notable Initiates of the Bovine Illuminati
  Leigh-Cheri (out on [Leigh-Cheripp] feet)
down
You can't go that way.
north
You open the glass doors and enter the library.
Library
The Bovine Illuminati Library is a chaotic jumble of shelves overflowing with books, scrolls, maps and random scrawlings. Several desks and chairs are scattered about the place so that initiates may sit and study in their quest for enlightenment. A doorway to the east leads through to the technical section.
Contents:
  a full-length mirror
  Interim note about work in progress
  Eddy Merkx MAX
  Introduction for Adventurers
read introduction for adventurers
I don't understand that.
Try this instead:  read introduction
read introduction
A heavy, leather-bound volume with gold lettering on the spine and a musty smell.


    An Introduction to Adventuring
    ------------------------               Gemba, Bovine Academy Press

    Welcome to the Bovine Illuminati. The books in this library are provided to help you understand how adventuring works. To have got this far, you must have been initiated already, which means you are ready to start adventuring.

    To begin with, your adventuring character has rather unimpressive, but not totally negligible, capabilities. You may undertake courses at the academy to improve your prowess in a number of areas. To the east of the main academy entrance is a corridor. The rooms along that corridor are places of instruction.

    In each of these rooms a number of courses are available. You should enrol in those that reflect the abilities you wish your character to have. Be aware that there is a limit to the total amount you may improve your abilities this way, so you are advised to investigate all the course offerings before enrolling in any intensive courses.

    There is a mirror in the atrium of the Illuminati complex and several others are placed in various places around the academy. These may be used to judge your abilities and guide your choice of courses.

    Should you find that your RPG character doesn't quite suit your wishes, you may go to the Termination Centre, south and west from the academy entrance, for painless euthanasia and then generate a new character.


(You finish reading.)
whereis eris
Eris (#24929) is in 1934 Buick (#29514).
whereis ajia
ajia (#41630) is in Mole's Room (#54187).
whereis leigh-cheri
Leigh-Cheri (#53476) is in Academy (#91).
@go #54187
We are sorry, but the group is currently conducting a very long test.  Please wait until later before trying to enter.  All entry is granted by Mole.  Thank you.
Either Vortex doesn't want to go, or Mole's Room didn't accept it.
home
You click your heels three times.
Gam-Bit's
@quit
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.




III.


thor% telnet cheshire.oxy.edu 7777


connect BOM SHANKAR
*** Connected ***


My green silly is red black for dog chicken film fafa, rieairng.


You thinks you are because, but not fred because that would mean jumletheth is not nope nor cheese.


Most zen and say are better hose than synchronici pedicious.
If now were tastey, show me what walking would be.


emote kinhin
Don't bother.




Your dies bluely blue if sucklingly blue zen william would cause.
Sad, so sad when you fall asleep like that.  Tsk Tsk.
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.




*




Whyfore the momma for lugnut, ask I you.
I'd rather softly lofty than bojangles death, as butter impecuiary.
You say, “Because it sounds good”
Thank you wise one.




Yhvh fluoride hitchhiking, bozo hitchhiking carry and green laughing boojyboy xpealidotio.


@who
Activity through inactivity.
Name       Idle            Total Idle      Total Connect   Percent Idle
-------    ------------    ------------    ------------    ------------
BOM             0 seconds       an hour         an hour         77%
    * == Bodhisatva     % == Master    $ == Novice


Oy


You say, “OM”
Your fingers will destroy your meditation.




I've lost biden for lickme.


emotes licks
The keyboard is sure to block your mind.




Gooogg gggo og oo




Please type a gerund.


I can funky my twice.


You say, “pleaseing”


Thank you wise one.


look
Stop fidgeting, you're bothering the others.


You say, “There are no others”
When badly and foobish come to pass, momma will bring now with fluoride for more fun.


Will you stop the infernal racquet and meditate!?


I can't nylon my food, nor my green with my chocolate.


You say, “Too bad”
Activity through inactivity.


My chocolate beet is man frowning for killing the eating pin, crufty.


You say, “Flibberguck, O did.”


I can't and tell eos, nor tooter just


You say, “Got a problem?”
Don't bother.


Everyone knows the nature of spring with respect to hunblrt, what is this?


You say, “Love”
Thank you wise one.


Blue = yyy but not going = fun.
Green = xxx


You say, “going = rain”
Save your breath.


I'd rather benson wierd than good say, as and torture.
You say, “good”
Activity through inactivity.


I hundred but you toejam so maybe hheeerrrrmmppph is not salubriously for mountain, or amplifier.  Maybe this men with emptiness.


You say, “yes”
Will you stop the infernal racquet and meditate!?


Highest tells satan that joy is not quayle.  Nor is keep surfers.


You say, “All Hail Dischordia”
Your typing detracts from your enlightenment.


Tobe tells sue that cause is not ffjhrjr.  Nor is crystal yellow.
Everyone knows the nature of the with respect to shocked, what is this?
You say, “Electricity”
Thank you wise one.


My the cliffs is kill kill for most gren joshua feel, bite.
emotes chomps
Once a student typed too much and died.


A gong sounds quietly and a voice intones, "Matthias has joined the meditation."


emotes gassho
Hair will grow on your palms if you keep typing.
I say rebels, you say little, I say glory, you say boo, let's agree upon know.


You say, “Agreed”
Will you stop the infernal racquet and meditate!?


I'd rather death the than the keeper, as top happy.


You say, “mmmm”
Will you stop the infernal racquet and meditate!?


I rebels but you pig so maybe result is not invisible for angharad, or clinton.  Maybe true like with feel.


You say, “Little do ye know...”
Don't bother.


Hshe heeee sees ehhe x s e


guest said you knew about wombat.  Reply, telling them about something.
You say, “Never been to the desert. Boo!”
Thank you wise one.


Until blue nothing will jason but for emptiness if dead has any droppings to say about general.


Book fred destroy, pointless help destroy bobra with living calm amplifier fred, destroy.




You say, “no”
Once a student typed too much and died.


I cat but you sky so maybe amazing is not reason for soft, or offer.  Maybe dog does with boblike.


You say, “maybe”
Hair will grow on your palms if you keep typing.


Hunblrt thinks you are taller, but not wonderful because that would mean happily is not junk nor ble.


You say, “who is hunblrt?”
Hair will grow on your palms if you keep typing.


Argue you gerund, redly gerund shitty and always there because blue.


You say, “Arguing is not my forte”
Your fingers will destroy your meditation.


"comedy" is to "outside" as "fast" is to...
I can knew hours as splickedly fred, not as outer disgrace.


You say, “conveyor”
Thank you wise one.


I can grun like as sushi why, not as dog true.


Bobbliy = dont but not cool = sings.


Until mother nothing will fast but for open if bob has any being to say about but.


You say, “Up yours”
The keyboard is sure to block your mind.


Tell tells mot that scrog is not air.  Nor is think polly.


emotes breathing
Your fingers will destroy your meditation.


Until bob nothing will never but for felch if fff has any not to say about thing.
Matthias mumbles something.


You say, “BOM SHANKAR!”
Activity through inactivity.


Please yes possibly abuse, chocolate blue abuse cat with going there bliss yes possibly, abuse.


You say, “OK, master, whatever you want...”
Stop fidgeting, you're bothering the others.


I can soft boy as talk good, not as bob gnrarng.


You say, “me too”
Stop fidgeting, you're bothering the others.


Einrh trbiri aentne


You say, “help”
Once a student typed too much and died.


Coyote-Doncreate uses wait to spam domo george, /dev/null gets revenge with speakerbox.


Say is unto eradicate for you.
You say, “OK”
Activity through inactivity.


Matthias falls asleep.
A gong sounds quietly and a voice intones, "Matthias leaves our meditation."
@who
Enlightenment does not come from typing.
Name       Idle            Total Idle      Total Connect   Percent Idle
---------    ----------    ------------    ------------    ------------
BOM             0 seconds       2 hours         2 hours         83%
    * == Bodhisatva     % == Master    $ == Novice


I can't godlike little lucky, nor unlikely good.


You say, “I must leave if nothing new is to happen, dear teacher”
Your typing detracts from your enlightenment.


Know weasels clinton, film clinton you and blue sucklingly vodka is.
You say, “no”
Enlightenment does not come from typing.
"know" is to "erogenating" as "south" is to...
You say, “Bumham”
Thank you wise one.
@quit
May you meditate as well in real life.
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.




*




Eris [to Marble]: Indeed.  When first I read it, I thought not much of it; it was a good read, nothing more.  A week or so later, I had become ENLIGHTENED.
emma exclaims, "Sick!"
Priestess bravely gags the cockatoo, ignoring nipped fingers and frantic squawking.
Nitram teleports in.
Eris says, "Sick!  Heyde ho."
Katie exclaims, "Hey, Sick!"
Pandora wonders if Nitram is anything like Nitre....
JoanOfArk teleports in.
Sick helloes.
Nitram exits to the north.
Eris waves to Nitram.
You say, "hail !"
JoanOfArk says, "hey everyone!"
Exxxx says, "'ello sick!"
Priestess waves in advance..she'll have to give up her terminal to the next person who come in with serious work to do..
@whois eris
I don't understand that.
Alexis waves at Sick.
Nitram enters from the north.
Eris wonders at the popularity of Sick and it's source.  No doubt from his programming skill and his impeccable music taste.
Sick waves and waves.
Eris [to Priestess]: That is too bad.
look sick
Sick
He proudly displays Sick's Official Sick's Fan Club Membership Button.  French Canadian bean soup!
A tattoo on Sick's forehead reads: 2:28 pm


"SICK things in cars rotate 'round my stars" -- Alice Cooper


He is awake and looks alert.
He is carrying Sick's Sick Player Class (asleep), Temp-class (asleep), SSPC-Options, and Sick's SSPC personality construct.
Guest says, "goodbye all == Au revoir tous le monde.."
Eris curtseys to JoanOfArk.
Katie exclaims, "Bye-guest!"
Nitram lags
look joanofarc
Priestess says, "Au revoir, Guest....a bientot, peut-etre..?"
Nitram [to Pandora]: Nope...noting to do with Nitre .. Why?
Alexis sleeps for a short time.
I see no "joanofarc" here.
Guest has disconnected.
Marlboro teleports in.
JoanOfArk says, "Au Revoir Guest"
Eris needs to download her GIF of Jesus Built My Hotrod sometime soon.
The housekeeper arrives to remove Guest.
Pandora says, "Au revoir...."
Nitram says, "BTW: CAn anyone here rember where the Lambda MOOvie Theatre is?"
Marlboro says, "hi all"
Foobies' body begins to form 10 feet above the ground. First his left arm, then his right. Then his head and rear end. Then his toes. Then his feet, and finally his stomach. As his kneecaps are added, completing his whole body, Foobies falls hard onto the ground.
Sick hates this lag.
Look eris
She is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 a broom                                 WMSR 540AM
 Bozo Button                             Nasty Looking Doll resembling Eris
 Orbo                                    Spam
 Euphonium                               The Golden Apple of Discord
 ErisOrb                                 The Kama Sutra
 RCAcam                                  A Would be GiAnT
 ErisVision                              wooden nickel
 Eris's Comm                             A Trading Card Of Anya
 A sign reading-- WARNING!! THESE ARE NOT THE RAMONES!
JoanOfArk says, "argh...stress time!"
Pandora says, "Sayonara"
Priestess [to Marlboro]: #40955
Pandora says, "Adios"
The cuckoo clock begins making a small whirring noise.
Pandora says, "Catch you later alligator!"
emma says, "hullo, Foobies"
look the golden apple of discord
Foobies says, "Hey lo"
Nitram lags.
Eris says, "Foobies!"
>> Cuckoo! <<
You hear a small click coming from the cuckoo clock.
Pandora [to Nitram]: Oh no reason....we studied about nitre in English.
I see no "the golden apple of discord" here.
Priestess waves at Foobies.
look foobies
Eris waves ecstatically to Foobies.  "LTNS."
Eris says, "Lambda MOOvie Theatre... #40955."
Foobies
A man with not a lot on his mind. However, this burdens him. He is between two inches and eight feet tall, depending on his mood.
He is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 Foobies move-thing (worn)               a gold thank you watch(from avenger)
 Foobies-Style candy                     Mutt 'n Jeff comic book
 Woodoo Doll resembling Cassandra
Katie waves
Nitram [to Pandora]: Hm...well I can't say that I've ever heard of Nitre at all.
Foobies says, "This lag is making me seasick"
Eris says, "After a while, crocodile."
Nitram [to Eris]: Many thanks.
Nitram [to Eris]: I'll just go check it out.
Pandora [to Nitram]: It was on the walls of one of Poe's stories...
Eris decides to go and d/l that .gif of Ministry.  BRB, maybe, maybe not.
JoanOfArk flattens out into a largish 29 cent postage stamp and floats away.
Delta comes out of the closet (so to speak...).
Priestess waves at Eris.
Eris waves bye to all, hugs those who want it, and gives a proper Discordian goodbye to Marble.
Guest comes out of the closet (so to speak...).
Priestess hugs Eris warmly.
Pandora [to Nitram]: I believe it was.....uh....The Cask of Amontillado...
emma hugs Eris warmly.
You say, "hail eris"
Delta exits to the north.
Eris has disconnected.
Marlboro says, "hey, sick bumped into any  purple guests recently?"
You hear a sudden "BEEP" nearby.
Sick suddenly jumps into the air and flies home.
Guest says, "hi all"
**
You hear two sudden "HONKS" nearby!
Purple_Guest comes out of the closet (so to speak...).
A worm hole suddenly appears and sucks Quantum-Vacuum out.  The hole vanishes.
Marlboro hugs everyone
whereis marbles
Guest thinks that this is all rather freaky.
Pandora hugs Marlboro
A largish 29 cent postage stamp floats into the room and fattens up into JoanOfArk.
Guest lags
Exxxx says, "@who vendoria"
Marbles (#48810) is in a globe (#7747).
Pandora [to Marlboro]: Did you name yourself after some cigarettes?
Exxxx goes home.
Guest hugs Alexis.
Priestess flattens out into a largish 29 cent postage stamp and floats away.
Alexis stares off into the middle distance.
The housekeeper arrives to remove Noire from The Living Room.
Alexis hugs Guest warmly.
JoanOfArk teleports out.
@go #7747
Earth
A big blue-green planet.
This is Stellah, Sioned, Grombart, Cherub, Corazon, Minstrel, Yoric, Jant, and Manticore's hometown.
Within Earth you see: Africa, North America, South America, Australia, Asia, Europe, Antarctica, Oceans, and Islands.
You see EARTH- HOW TO USE here.
JoanOfArk is here.
Marbles goes from Colorado to United States.
Teal_Guest goes from England to United Kingdom.
JoanOfArk quickly morphs into psychotic.
Teal_Guest goes from United Kingdom to Scotland.
look EARTH- HOW TO USE
There appears to be some writing on the note ...
read
I don't understand that.
Teal_Guest goes from Scotland to Hawick.
read EARTH- HOW TO USE
I don't understand that.
Try this instead:  read EARTH- HOW
Marbles goes from United States to North America.
read EARTH- HOW
There appears to be some writing on the note ...


Welcome to the globe of player Earth. It's easy enough to look around, and add your favorite spots.


Type `enter <place>' to enter a place inside your location.
Type `out' to hop back out to your location's location.


`add <place>' to add a place as a LOCATION IN your location. For example, from Washington, you might type `add Walla Walla'. Once you add a place, enter it, and...
`describe as "A thrilling description of some sort."' - which will describe your location. If it's already been described, it won't let you redescribe it.
`hometown' adds a comment that this is your home.
If you goof, you can `remove <place>' from the globe.


Please, be realistic: do not add places in areas that they obviously do not belong. For instance, don't make Walla Walla a part of the Atlantic Ocean. Such weirdness will probably be removed.


(You finish reading.)
Teal_Guest goes from Hawick to Scotland.
You sense that Marbles is looking for you in North America, Earth.
He pages, "This could get confusing. :-)"
Teal_Guest goes from Scotland to United Kingdom.
Marbles goes from North America to Canada.
Teal_Guest goes from United Kingdom to Europe.
Teal_Guest goes from Europe to France.
Teal_Guest goes from France to Europe.
psychotic leaves the globe.
Teal_Guest goes from Europe to Earth.
Outside: psychotic heads south.
Teal_Guest goes from Earth to Asia.
Teal_Guest goes from Asia to Thailand.
You say, "Yes, confusing --Hail Eris!"
Teal_Guest goes from Thailand to Pattaya.
Teal_Guest goes from Pattaya to Thailand.
Teal_Guest goes from Thailand to Bangkok.
look marbles
Marble rolls around taking a keen interest in everything about it.
He is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 temperature converter                Official Justy Cheerleader Button
Teal_Guest goes from Bangkok to Thailand.
Outside: The housekeeper arrives to cart Delta off to bed.
Teal_Guest goes from Thailand to Asia.
Teal_Guest goes from Asia to Earth.
Outside: Nitram arrives from the south.
north
Teal_Guest says, "hi marble why were you looking for me"
You can't go that way.
You say, "I don't think I was looking for you, but hi anyway. What made you think I was?"
look teal_guest
By definition, guests appear nondescript.
This one can't decide if it should be more blue or more green.
It is awake and looks alert.
Teal_Guest says, "never mind it says you are"
Nitram enters the globe.


You say, "I am? I suppose I am..."
Teal_Guest says, "where are you from"
You say, "Albany NY USA"
Nitram goes from Earth to Europe.
Teal_Guest says, "the screen says I sense you looking for me in canada"
You say, "Though my real home is Santa Cruz."
Outside: Marlboro arrives from the south.
Nitram goes from Europe to United Kingdom.
Teal_Guest goes from Earth to North America.
You say, "The question is:  is there a difference between marble and marbles. Answer: yes!"
Teal_Guest goes from North America to Canada.
Nitram goes from United Kingdom to England.
enter canada
You sense that Marbles is looking for you in Canada, North America.
He pages, "Oh! I read something about Santa Cruz recently.. in a novel."
I don't know that place.
Teal_Guest says, "hello"
@go canada
There's no such place known.
Marbles says, ""
You say, "hello. i'm having trouble getting to canada, north america"
Teal_Guest says, "where are you"
Nitram adds Oxford as a part of England.
You sense that Marbles is looking for you in Canada, North America.
He pages, "you're already there!"
Nitram goes from England to Oxford.
You say, "what novel?  I don't know where i am. new to THIS planet...!"
Teal_Guest says, "type enter north america and then enter canada"
enter north america
North America, Earth
A big, big chunk of land that really shouldn't be called a continent, because it's attached to South America. You see lots of satellites floating around above this place.
This is Shadowcat and Archmagus's hometown.
Within North America you see: United States, Canada, Mexico, and Cuba.
enter canada
Outside: Plaid_Guest arrives from the south.
Canada, North America
Simply stated, the best Country in the world. We have many mixing factors such as French, English and <dread> American to name a few. As well as the perks of the States, and less crime and pollution. Plus we whup ass in hockey.
Within Canada you see: Halifax, Ottawa, Vancouver, Alberta, Prince Edward Island, Victoria, Toronto, Dartmouth, Newfoundland, Nova Scotia, and Quebec.
Teal_Guest and Marbles are here.
Marbles whispers, "'Impossible Vacation' by Spalding Gray"
Teal_Guest says, "I'm new too"
You say, "AH"
Outside: Plaid_Guest goes into the dining room.
You say, "Gray I know of and with one night shared a stage, actually"
Outside: Plaid_Guest comes out of the dining room.
Outside: Plaid_Guest wanders off into the kitchen.
Marbles whispers, "are you mentioned in any of his films?"
Teal_Guest says, "want to go hike a 14er"
Marbles wonders why he's whispering.
You say, "No."
You say, "Does that mean 14000 foot mountain Teal_Guest?"


Teal_Guest hugs marble
Teal_Guest says, "yes"


You say, "thanks. what i do to deserve that, eh?"
Teal_Guest flips
You say, "well, i've climbed longs peak, colorado 14,285, hungover, but today i don't think it's gonna happen. why the affection?"
Outside: Marlboro has connected.
Marbles surreptitiously looks for his copy of 'Impossible Vacation' (a prized possession.. autographed!)


Teal_Guest says, "hungover is not the way to climb, I know firsthand"
Teal_Guest says, "do you rock climb"


Nitram goes from Oxford to England.
You say, "2 most recent books I've had autographed:  Eileen Myles NOT ME, RA Wilsons ILLUMINATUS!"
Outside: Marlboro teleports out.
Nitram goes from England to London.
You say, "No, not much. mountain climbing is hobby"
Nitram goes from London to South Kensington.
Teal_Guest says, "rock climbing is the best you should try it"


Nitram goes from South Kensington to Imperial College.
Nitram goes from Imperial College to Mech Eng.
Nitram goes from Mech Eng to Imperial College Computing Centre.
Marbles says, "I've only got hills nearby. No mountains."
You say, "Where? Canada?"
Nitram goes from Imperial College Computing Centre to User Support Hut.
Nitram goes from User Support Hut to Imperial College Computing Centre.
Nitram goes from Imperial College Computing Centre to Mech Eng.
Teal_Guest says, "go to colorado on here and climb shavano"
Nitram goes from Mech Eng to Imperial College.
Teal_Guest goes from Canada to North America.
Teal_Guest goes from North America to United States.
enter north america
Teal_Guest goes from United States to Colorado.
I don't know that place.
Marbles says, "England, Marble"
Teal_Guest goes from Colorado to Mt. Shavano.
Nitram goes from Imperial College to South Kensington.
enter colorado
I don't know that place.
Nitram goes from South Kensington to London.
Nitram goes from London to England.
Teal_Guest goes from Mt. Shavano to cave door     .
Teal_Guest has disconnected.
Enter North America
The housekeeper arrives to remove Teal_Guest.
I don't know that place.
leave canada
I don't understand that.
Try this instead:  leave
leave
North America, Earth
enter santa cruz
I don't know that place.
Marbles whispers, "Is Santa Cruz on the globe?"
Marbles goes from Canada to Vancouver.
add place 'Santa Cruz'
'place 'Santa Cruz'' added as part of North America.
Nitram goes from England to United Kingdom.
Nitram goes from United Kingdom to Scotland.
Marbles grins at Marble.
Nitram goes from Scotland to United Kingdom.
describe 'Santa Cruz' as "The best place to be"
I don't understand that.
Try this instead:  describe as The best place to be


describe as The best place to be, a love jam if there ever were one. Organic Veggies daily if you want you want. And the strongest ‘coffee’ available.
Nitram goes from United Kingdom to England.
Marbles goes from Vancouver to downtown Vancouver.
Nitram goes from England to Oxford.
Marbles goes from downtown Vancouver to Vancouver.
North America has already been described.
Marbles goes from Vancouver to Lynn Valley.
Nitram goes from Oxford to England.
Nitram adds Cambridge as a part of England.
Marbles goes from Lynn Valley to Vancouver.
Marbles goes from Vancouver to sea, and mountain..
Nitram goes from England to Cambridge.


enter colorado
I don't know that place.


leave
Earth
enter north america
enter united states
United States, North America
A country holding about 6% of the world's population, owning over a third of the world's income.
This is Brand's hometown.
Within United States you see: Ohio, California, Oregon, Massachusetts, New Jersey, Indiana, Pennsylvania, Colorado, Virginia, Washington, Rhode Island, Illinois, Texas, New York, Connecticut, alabama, Georgia, Tennessee, West Virginia, New Mexico, Iowa, Florida, oklahoma, North Dakota, Wisconsin, Maryland, Minnesota, Nevada, Missouri, DC, New Hampshire, North Carolina, Vermont, Louisiana, Montana, Michigan, Alaska, Delaware, Arizona, maryland, Great American Desert, Utah, Kentucky, arkansas, South Carolina, Maine, and Nebraska.
Outside: You hear what sounds like a strange bird song coming from the living room.
Nitram has disconnected.
enter california
California, United States
Like, Wow.  My brother works in Silicon and has a drug problem, or is it the other way around?
Within California you see: Arcata, San Jose, Palo Alto, Concord, Santa Clara, Berkeley, Menlo Park, Burlingame, San Carlos, Atherton, Portola Valley, Redwood City, San Diego, Claremont, Newport Beach, Santa Barbara, Santa Clarita, Glendale, Mountain View, Oakland, Los Angeles, Alhambra, Pasadena, Fresno, Los Gatos, Santa Cruz, Ontario, saratoga, San Francisco, Sacramento, and East Palo Alto.
enter santa cruz
Santa Cruz, California
You are going to kick your self if you do not apply to UCSC
Within Santa Cruz you see: Shopping mall, Davenport, sun burn beach, UCSC, and Saturn Cafe.
enter saturn cafe
Saturn Cafe, Santa Cruz
The second rudest cafe in town.  Chocolate Madness to go with that chai sir?
This is Busy_Boy's hometown.
leave
Santa Cruz, California
enter shopping mall
Shopping mall, Santa Cruz
Every one wears their bathing suits in the stores!
Within Shopping mall you see: Logos.
Marbles whispers, "I'll have to look at Oxford and Cambridge. I just asked Nitram why he added them both. He said he was at Oxford and wanted to add Cambridge before someone from there did. [laugh]"
enter logos
Logos, Shopping mall
WOW - your amazed and impressed with the new Logos Bookstore. It is much better than the one that was destroyed in the earthquake. There are so many different aisle of books on various categories, you don't know where to begin.
Within Logos you see: Science Fiction.
enter science fiction
Science Fiction, Logos
They have every science fiction book imaginable. Everything from Douglas Adams to Timothy Zahn - you'll find your favorite book here.
Marbles goes from Vancouver to White Rock.
leave
Logos, Shopping mall
add place Poetry
'place Poetry' added as part of Logos.
describe as "You can actually find We Press books here. Better than a movie!"
Logos has already been described.
You say, "hello:"
enter Poetry
I don't know that place.
look
Logos, Shopping mall
Within Logos you see: Science Fiction and place Poetry.
enter place Poetry
place Poetry, Logos
This place isn't very interesting. Perhaps you should describe it, or go someplace more interesting.
describe place Poetry as "A wicked cool selection of old and new verse. One can actually find We Press publications here, sometimes, better than tv!"
The housekeeper arrives to cart Nitram off to bed.
I don't understand that.
Try this instead:  describe as A wicked cool selection of old and new verse. One can actually find We Press publications here, sometimes, better than tv!
describe as A wicked cool selection of old and new verse. One can actually find We Press publications here, sometimes, better than TV!
Marbles goes from White Rock to Vancouver.
place Poetry described.
look
A largish 29 cent postage stamp floats into the room and fattens up into Marbles.
place Poetry, Logos
Marbles flattens out into a largish 29 cent postage stamp and floats away.
leave
Logos, Shopping mall
Marbles flattens out into a largish 29 cent postage stamp and floats away.
leave
Shopping mall, Santa Cruz
leave
Santa Cruz, California
enter davenport
Davenport, Santa Cruz
AHHH! SHARKS!
add place Kingfisher Flat
'place Kingfisher Flat' added as part of Davenport.
describe as Home of William Everson. In the canyon along a stream near the fishery. A waterfall is 10 minutes walk upstream.
A largish 29 cent postage stamp floats into the room and fattens up into Marbles.
Marbles goes from Earth to North America.
Marbles goes from North America to United States.
Marbles goes from United States to North America.
Davenport has already been described.
enter Kingfisher Flat
I don't know that place.
enter place Kingfisher Flat
place Kingfisher Flat, Davenport
This place isn't very interesting. Perhaps you should describe it, or go someplace more interesting.
describe as Home of William Everson, our prized poet. Lovely birds in this canyon, along the stream, a fishery is nearby, and an 85' cascading waterfall 10 minutes walk upstream.
place Kingfisher Flat described.
Marbles whispers, "The way you've added it it looks like Santa Cruz is a whole country!"
Leave
Davenport, Santa Cruz
AHHH! SHARKS!
Within Davenport you see: place Kingfisher Flat.
leave
Santa Cruz, California
enter sun burn beach
sun burn beach, Santa Cruz
It is slightly foggy. Don't forget your hat...don't bother with Sunblock it doesn't work here.
leave
Santa Cruz, California
UCSC, Santa Cruz
Oh...Cool! Nice campus!
Within UCSC you see: Elf Land, Porter College, and Crowm College.
enter porter college
Porter College, UCSC
This place isn't very interesting. Perhaps you should describe it, or go someplace more interesting.
Within Porter College you see: Sluggos.
enter sluggos
Sluggos, Porter College
The best pizza on Campus! (actually the only) Step right up and order yourself a pesto pizza and a glass of Anchor Steam draft. Don't drink more than 5, remember you have a class over at Cowell in an hour.
leave
Porter College, UCSC
describe as This is NOT a new art school
Porter College described.
leave
UCSC, Santa Cruz
Elf Land, UCSC
Ancient Elf ruins - A once popular spot among UCSC students until it was torn down to make room for College 47.
Within Elf Land you see: Fairie Ring.
Marbles goes from North America to Earth.
enter fairie ring
Marbles leaves the globe.
Fairie Ring, Elf Land
A place to sit, smoke and make love, as the urges strike you. There is evidence of the latter here now...
Outside: Marbles heads south.
south
You can't go that way.
leave
Elf Land, UCSC
leave
UCSC, Santa Cruz
enter crown college
I don't know that place.
enter crowm college
Crowm College, UCSC
This place isn't very interesting. Perhaps you should describe it, or go someplace more interesting.
leave
UCSC, Santa Cruz
leave
Santa Cruz, California
add Lincoln Street house
'Lincoln Street house' added as part of Santa Cruz.
describe as home of Marty the marvellous filmmaker, James the stompin' bassoonist, little Stephen our hero of poesie, Eric who lives music, former location of Aardvark Studios, Eric-the-Eric, Meester Funk, and many others. Music emanates from each. . .




*




I.
I'd rather like dysfunction than yamma candlemakin, as amazed kill.


I can't would your sexy, nor feel bill.


You say, “top”
Will you stop the infernal racquet and meditate!?
Top Meditators as of Fri Feb 26 17:06:06 1993 PST.
Name                Total Idle          Total Connect       Percent
------------       ------------        ------------        ------------
$Zeus               a day               a day               91%
$Isamu              a day               a day               92%
Tapin               14 hours            18 hours            77%
stone               12 hours            17 hours            68%
phone               12 hours            18 hours            66%
scooby              12 hours            13 hours            87%
fluoride            10 hours            11 hours            95%
Atman               10 hours            12 hours            85%
Bronnton            10 hours            15 hours            66%
shhmoo              10 hours            13 hours            76%
poxaV               9 hours             16 hours            59%
Veep                9 hours             13 hours            71%
Dharana             8 hours             11 hours            76%
TommyTheCat         8 hours             11 hours            70%
Malacar             7 hours             9 hours             82%
Dules               7 hours             8 hours             91%
shade               7 hours             7 hours             89%
nihil               7 hours             7 hours             93%
Musashi             6 hours             7 hours             94%
snid                6 hours             8 hours             82%
    * == Bodhisatva   % == Master    $ == Novice


Meditate, or die.


Enter a noun please:
You say, “cat”
You answer incorrectly.
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.










Connected to cheshire.oxy.edu.
Escape character is '^]'.


Shhhhhhh......




connect guest
Either that player does not exist, or has a different password.
create brother marley
*** Created ***
A new command, 'top' will display the top meditators.
A bug was fixed in the top scores list which dropped the highest score.


Troerr urtrto reou tu




Mu kills Samsar swiftly, like a fuschia.  Thusly, any is shocked most hello.




"playing" is to "dragon" as "replied" is to...
You say, “nothing”
You answer incorrectly.
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.




II.


thor% telnet lambda.parc.xerox.com 8888
connect vortex omaly


*** Connected ***
Gam-Bit's
Last connected Fri Feb 26 14:08:00 1993 PST from thor.albany.edu
There is new activity on the following lists:
    *smut                       713 new messages
**
whereis mineral


look


@quit


Mineral (#50669) is in The Idea of Switzerland (#53048).


It's night.
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.




*




You say, "Hey Mineral -- whatchoo doing??"
Mineral stares off into the middle distance.
emote nudges mineral
Vortex nudges mineral
@mail
5 messages:
   1:  Nov 22 11:11   Gam-Bit (#50235)       hello
   2:  Jan 16 16:19   Gam-Bit (#50235)       MOOmail
   3:  Jan 24 04:22   Gam-Bit (#50235)       hmmm
   4:  Jan 31 18:43   Gam-Bit (#50235)       safe
>>>5:  Feb  5 23:29   Mineral (#50669)       uh huh
----+
@send
Usage:  @send <list-of-recipients>
        @send                      to continue with a previous draft
@send mineral
Subject:
[Type a line of input or `@abort' to abort the command.]
yo yo
Mail Room


Do a 'look' to get the list of commands, or 'help' for assistance.


Composing a letter to Mineral (#50669) entitled "yo yo"
enter
[Type lines of input; use `.' to end or `@abort' to abort the command.]
Man, I caught you sleeping in hacker heaven, and know the
way. It's saturday and obviously procrastinating on the work. So
it goes. Thanks for helping with dear Belleness, both of you I love --


later,


CF
enter.


enter.


enter


send
.


`.Lines 1-15 added.


I don't understand that.


look
Mail Room
Commands:


say         <text>                      w*hat
emote       <text>                      subj*ect    [<text>]
lis*t       [<range>] [nonum]           to          [<rcpt>..]
ins*ert     [<ins>] ["<text>]           also-to     [<rcpt>..]
n*ext,p*rev [n] ["<text>]               reply-to    [<rcpt>..]
enter                                   showlists,unsubscribe
del*ete     [<range>]                   who         [<rcpt>..]
f*ind       /<str>[/[c][<range>]]       pri*nt
s*ubst      /<str1>/<str2>[/[g][c][<range>]]
m*ove,c*opy [<range>] to <ins>          send
join*l      [<range>]                   abort
fill        [<range>] [@<col>]          q*uit,done,pause


----  Do `help <cmdname>' for help with a given command.  ----


  <ins> ::= $ (the end) | [^]n (above line n) | _n (below line n) | . (current)<range> ::= <lin> | <lin>-<lin> | from <lin> | to <lin> | from <lin> to <lin>
  <lin> ::= n | [n]$ (n from the end) | [n]_ (n before .) | [n]^ (n after .) `help insert' and `help ranges' describe these in detail.
Enter [Type lines of input; use `.' to end or `@abort' to abort the command.]
exit


$


home


`.'


@quit


end.


fg
help


@help




*




You say, "sex nothing special happens. when do it kick in?"


Mineral says, "soon."
You say, "OK. my seat belt ain't fastened. gotta file capture running..."


You notice objects in the room taking on a blackish aura. Also, the back of your skull begins to hum pleasantly.
A sexual surge begins to ride down your spine. You hear a kind of choir effect building somewhere behind your head.


Best of the Pooh Sticks waves.


You say, "I notice your windup trilobite is a shrine now"
Mineral's paper is on Ted Berrigan--first time writing on him tho he'd long wanted to
Mineral says, "I'll take a pill too"
You see Demian's face projected on the ceiling.
You say, "shiva bless GML"
backpack talks with what appears to be a school of paleozoic bony fish swimming up from the floor.
Mineral says, "hand 'em over"


Best of the Pooh Sticks talks with what appears to be a disembodied set of teeth.
You say, "Thanks for being such a weirdo"
emote hands pills to mineral
Mineral says, "no probs"
Vortex hands pills to mineral
You see the manifest reality of your desire.


You see yourself dressed in Elizabethan garb.
You say, "I have seen the manifest reality of my desire and it is me"
You see Demian's face projected on the ceiling.
Mineral says, "type "hand pills to mineral"
hand pills to mineral
You say, "Oops meant met..."
Best of the Pooh Sticks says, "having a good trip?"
You hand pills to Mineral.
Mineral says, "merci"


Upper Silurian Seafloor Diorama and Trilobite Shrine talks with what appears to be a big, drippy cheeseburger with mean-looking eyes hovering near the door.
Mineral swallows the pills. You notice his pupils begin to dilate.
You say, "bums away..."
Mineral says, "having a good trip?"
Mineral exclaims, "They're great in crowded rooms!"
Upper Silurian Seafloor Diorama and Trilobite Shrine whispers "you know, I really like you"
backpack looks at you threateningly.
You see a floating death's head.
You say, "who are these other manifestations?"
Mineral talks with what appears to be a pulsating juniper bush in the corner.
You say, "roddy:  let's go to globe, go to santa cruz..."
Mineral says, "Hey--there's the Princess of Crete"
Best of the Pooh Sticks talks with what appears to be a minature chrome woman who licks her lips incessantly.
You say, "how do we get to globe again?"
Mineral says, "Go #17 first""
You say, "OK. now."
@go #17
Mineral says, "@go, that is"
The Living Room
Hagbard, Red_Guest, Morpheus, JoeFeedback (distracted), Bloaf (hating morphers), Ox, Iccaru (distracted), Jander (distracted), Prince_Louis, Zooey (sadistic), Wulfgar (distracted), Oddstrich (distracted), Teal_Guest, Yellow_Guest, reznor, and Justy_Shadowhawke are here.
reznor laughs hysterically
Day-Glo Discman talks with what appears to be a school of paleozoic bony fish swimming up from the floor.
Zooey tells Happy Waving Weasel to shake.
Happy Waving Weasel shakes its happy waving body maniacally to the background music of Nine Inch Nails.
Happy Waving Weasel wags its tail at Zooey.
Yellow_Guest gives the puke to reznor
The cockatoo wriggles out of the gag.
Cockatoo squawks, "I'm so fucking hungry! Argh."
Wulfgar says, "goodness"
reznor starts coughing again
Bloaf hungrier than Jesus.
Mineral teleports in.
Ox body slams Yellow_guest HARD!!!
Oddstrich says, "BRBadubdub."
You see yourself dressed in Elizabethan garb.
Dagard appears out of nowhere.
reznor thanks yellow for the oh-so-sweet gift
Bloaf feeds the Cockatoo.
Cockatoo squawks, "why are you runninnnnnn awaaaaay"
Yellow_Guest says, "eh..."
Prince_Louis bravely gags the cockatoo, ignoring nipped fingers and frantic squawking.
Mineral waves to all
The Birthday Machine talks with what appears to be Silver_Rocket with talismanic symbols branded on his forehead.
Hagbard waves.
reznor cries because SOMEONE is still ignoring her
Zooey says, "Hi Mineral"
Yellow_Guest waves to mineral
Wulfgar waves
You say, "all hail discordia"
Ox DDT'S Yellow Guest...
You see musical notes issuing from a flaming orifice in the wall.
You begin to feel agreeably strung-out and a little tired. The choir falls silent and the black halo fades from the room.
Mineral whispers, "north"
Bloaf pats reznor onna head.
Oddstrich doesn't understand why people insist on gagging the bird.
reznor is going to sulk in the corner
Jander hugs reznor warmly.
Mineral byes
n
Prince_Louis says, "reznor, who's ignoring you?"
Ox HUGS reznor
The Entrance Hall
Mineral arrives from the south.
You say, "now what?"
Mineral hands you pills.
swallow pills
You swallow the pills. Nothing special happens.
give pills to mineral
You hand pills to Mineral.
Mineral says, "i'm waiting for yellow_guest.  he just paged"
emote gassho
You hear what sounds like a strange bird song coming from the living room.
Vortex gassho
Mineral swallows the pills. You notice his pupils begin to dilate.
Yellow_Guest teleports in.
You notice objects in the room taking on a blackish aura. Also, the back of your skull begins to hum pleasantly.
A sexual surge begins to ride down your spine. You hear a kind of choir effect building somewhere behind your head.
Mineral says, "hmm...guess he's not coming.  "enter globe""
You see the letters "B" and "Q," which are covered in green velour.
enter globe
Yellow_Guest waves
You step into the globe...
Earth
enter north america
You see cartoon reindeer with black hoods drawn over their heads.
North America, Earth
enter united states
United States, North America
Object #20800 talks with what appears to be a thin layer of iridescent foam covering your skin.
EARTH- HOW TO USE talks with what appears to be a school of paleozoic bony fish swimming up from the floor.
Outside: Prince_Louis bows in a great ceremony of respect.
Outside: Yellow_Guest says, "thanks"
Outside: Mineral [to yellow]:  type "swallow pills"
Outside: Yellow_Guest swallows the pills. You notice its pupils begin to dilate.
You say, "oooooo"
Outside: Yellow_Guest swallows the pills. You notice its pupils begin to dilate.
You see the letters "B" and "Q," which are covered in green velour.
Outside: Yellow_Guest swallows the pills. You notice its pupils begin to dilate.
Outside: Mineral bows
enter california
Outside: Yellow_Guest swallows the pills. You notice its pupils begin to dilate.
Outside: Mineral sighs quietly. You notice his eyes have returned to normal.
California, United States
Outside: Demian A large ball of fur expands quickly into Mr.Snuffleafugas
Object #54600 talks with what appears to be a school of paleozoic bony fish swimming up from the floor.
Outside: Demian says, "howdy yall"
Outside: Yellow_Guest teleports out.
Outside: Mineral says, "I need 'em back when yr done.""
a VB stubby morphs quickly into Flaming_Jealousy
enter santa cruz
Santa Cruz, California
Outside: Mineral exclaims, "Yo Demian!"
Object #20800 talks with what appears to be Silver_Rocket with talismanic symbols branded on his forehead.
a VB stubby waves to you.
Outside: Silver_Rocket arrives from the south.
Outside: Mineral says, "I gotta meet someone in Santa Cruz in the globe"
Outside: Demian does a little dance
Outside: Yellow_Guest teleports in.
Lincoln Street house, Santa Cruz
Home away from home. The place you wish you were. It smells good and it sounds good. Never a dull moment. Harry's spirit is usually around.
EARTH- HOW TO USE talks with what appears to be the letters "B" and "Q," which are covered in green velour.
Outside: Silver_Rocket exits through the stately front doors.
Outside: Demian says, "mind if a tag or is it private"
Outside: Mineral says, "Hey Silver"
Outside: Yellow_Guest swallows the pills. You notice its pupils begin to dilate.
Outside: Yellow_Guest swallows the pills. You notice its pupils begin to dilate.
Outside: Yellow_Guest swallows the pills. You notice its pupils begin to dilate.
Outside: Yellow_Guest swallows the pills. You notice its pupils begin to dilate.
Outside: Yellow_Guest swallows the pills. You notice its pupils begin to dilate.
Vortex talks with what appears to be a floating death's head.
Outside: Mineral says, "Not at all.  Come on"
Outside: Demian says, "go ahead"
Demian enters the globe.
Mineral enters the globe.
Object #20800 talks with what appears to be an axe-wielding priestess of ancient Crete.
Demian goes from Earth to North America.
Demian pages, "come on over" from the Family Room (#33).
Mineral goes from Earth to North America.
Demian goes from North America to United States.
Outside: Yellow_Guest teleports out.
Mineral goes from North America to United States.
Demian goes from United States to California.
Object #54600 waves to all
Leave lincoln street house
Mineral goes from United States to California.
I don't understand that.
Try this instead:  leave
leave
Santa Cruz, California
Demian goes from California to Santa Cruz.
You see a muscular naked man smeared with motor oil.
Demian says, "hello"
Demian says, "mineral is coming"
Mineral goes from California to Santa Cruz.
Demian talks with what appears to be a minature chrome woman who licks her lips incessantly.
You say, "typical (just saw a muscular naked man smeared with motor oil)"
Mineral says, "Demian, I want you to meet my good man Vortex"
Demian waves hello good man vortex
You see a disembodied set of teeth.
You say, "we may have met before?"
look demian
Demian
Blond haired, blue eyed, somewhat attractive white male. Wearing jeans, doc Marten shoes (not boots), and a t-shirt of the band Superchunk. Hes 6 feet, 155 lbs. Nothing else much to say.
He is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 gold medal for self-control             Glow-in-the-dark condoms
Demian says, "probably....""
Demian is very forgetful, but remembers the name
You see a school of paleozoic bony fish swimming up from the floor.
Mineral teleports pills in.
enter davenport
Davenport, Santa Cruz
AHHH! SHARKS!
enter place Kingfisher flat
Mineral asks, "want some?"
You see a pulsating juniper bush in the corner.
Yellow_Guest teleports in.
Yellow_Guest swallows the pills. You notice its pupils begin to dilate.
Yellow_Guest teleports out.
Demian says, "should we go in...yes to the pills"
Mineral exclaims, "what a hog!"
a VB stubby talks with what appears to be you.
You begin to feel agreeably strung-out and a little tired. The choir falls silent and the black halo fades from the room.
Mineral says, "not you...yellow"
leave
Davenport, Santa Cruz
Demian says, "yeah...he just came for pills and took off huh"
Mineral picks up pills.
leave
Santa Cruz, California
Demian and Mineral are here.
Demian swallows the pills. You notice his pupils begin to dilate.
Mineral sighs quietly. You notice his eyes have returned to normal.
Demian asks, "vortex do you live in santa cruz?"
Mineral says, "he's had about 30 already"
Prince_Louis enters the globe.
You say, "Lincoln Street House is where my homies is"
Demian hands you pills.
swallow pills
You swallow the pills. Nothing special happens.
give pills to mineral
You hand pills to Mineral.
Demian says, "there was a guy who came to school here from santa cruz and mooed his moo name was c.t.hack"
Prince_Louis says, "what do these pills do?"
Outside: Plaid_Guest comes down the corridor from the east.
Mineral [to Vortex]:  you should set a gender, man
Demian says, "but he bombed out and moved to oregon"
You say, "No!"
You say, "where iz U demian?"
Demian wonders what he's gonna do with that sexual urge
Outside: Plaid_Guest exits through the stately front doors.
You notice objects in the room taking on a blackish aura. Also, the back of your skull begins to hum pleasantly.
A sexual surge begins to ride down your spine. You hear a kind of choir effect building somewhere behind your head.
Demian says, "New Jersey"
Prince_Louis swallows the pills. You notice his pupils begin to dilate.
Mineral exclaims, "whatever you want, dude!"
You say, "AH"
Prince_Louis swallows the pills. You notice his pupils begin to dilate.
Prince_Louis swallows the pills. You notice his pupils begin to dilate.


You see all existing things.
Prince_Louis swallows the pills. You notice his pupils begin to dilate.
Prince_Louis swallows the pills. You notice his pupils begin to dilate.
Prince_Louis swallows the pills. You notice his pupils begin to dilate.
Prince_Louis says, "nothing special happens.. ?"
Demian says, "prince, you’d better back off the pills"
Mineral talks with what appears to be the pure and articulated concept of the divine.
Mineral says, "wait a minute or two"
You say, "RPXBH go to LSH"
Demian asks, "big drippy cheeseburgers with eyes, eh?"
a VB stubby talks with what appears to be a thin layer of iridescent foam covering your skin.
Prince_Louis swallows the pills. You notice his pupils begin to dilate.
Demian [to Vortex]: huh?
Prince_Louis teleports out
You say, "AH the pure and articulated concept of the divine!"
Outside: Davith arrives from the south.
Mineral exclaims, "I saw that once shrooming for real!"
Outside: Davith meanders down the corridor to the east.
You say, "I bleeb you"
Mineral [to Vortex]: that was with Stacey
Outside: Silver_Rocket arrives from the south.
Outside: Silver_Rocket exits through the stately front doors.
Prince_Louis says, "oh-oh... :)"
a VB stubby talks with what appears to be Silver_Rocket with talismanic symbols branded on his forehead.
You say, "of course. I was thinking of her today...!"
Demian says, "this drug really fucks with your mooability"
Prince_Louis says, "thanks"
Prince_Louis teleports out.
You see yourself dressed in Elizabethan garb.
You say, "Driving to school. How it'd been 5 years since we, you know...did it"
Mineral says, "they'll get even gnarlier when I set some new stuff in them"
You say, "please follow..."
enter lincoln street house
Mineral waves to you.
Lincoln Street house, Santa Cruz
Mineral says, "I think about her surprisingly often"
Demian says, "mineral, you bring up some of the best words of all time...gnarly"
Demian goes from Santa Cruz to Lincoln Street house.
Mineral laffs
Mineral waves to all
Mineral goes from Santa Cruz to Lincoln Street house.
Mineral waves to all
Mineral exclaims, "Awright--Harry!"
You say, "of course this is boringer than it really is. but i'm a novice mooer"
Object #20800 talks with what appears to be a pulsating juniper bush in the corner.


You see cartoon reindeer with black hoods drawn over their heads.
Object #54600 morphs quickly into Flaming_Jealousy
You say, "an incubus nightmare, too!"
Demian says, "when i was shrooming once...we were all having the same hallucination of a little girl dancing in a puddle...one person saw it and all of us started seeing it too"
Object #20800 goes home.
Mineral [to Demian]: so what's w/you & L-C, if you don't mind my askin
You see Demian's face projected on the ceiling.
You say, "RP. I'm really playing up the spaceman identity here this week. i like it!"
Demian says, "i from NJ"
Object #54600 talks with what appears to be Demian's face projected on the ceiling.
Demian [to Vortex]: did you ask if anybody was from the east coast or was that a hallucination
You see an enormous silver mantis in the middle of the room.
Mineral says, "hallucination"
Demian says, "me and l-c? i don’t know...i want her badly"
You say, "hallucination."
You see a floating death's head.
Demian says, "mineral did you hug me"
Mineral talks with what appears to be a six-year-old girl surrounded by a spinning cloud of autumn leaves.
Demian sighs quietly. You notice his eyes have returned to normal.
Mineral says, "I thought maybe you had something w/her IRL or something"
Object #54600 talks with what appears to be Silver_Rocket with talismanic symbols branded on his forehead.
Mineral says, "no, D I didn't"
EARTH- HOW TO USE morphs quickly into Flaming_Jealousy
You begin to feel agreeably strung-out and a little tired. The choir falls silent and the black halo fades from the room.
You say, "rp plz fllw"
Demian says, "no....maybe some day. i really think she's great and have talked to her on the phone twice"
Mineral says, "Cool...."
leave
Santa Cruz, California
Demian says, "although i havent seen what she looks like yet"
enter davenport
Davenport, Santa Cruz
Demian says, "hey vortex why do you keep running around"
Mineral goes from Lincoln Street house to Santa Cruz.
enter place kingfisher flat
Demian goes from Lincoln Street house to Santa Cruz.
Demian goes from Santa Cruz to Davenport.
Mineral goes from Santa Cruz to Davenport.
place Kingfisher Flat, Davenport
Demian goes from Davenport to place Kingfisher Flat.
Demian exclaims, "wow!"
You say, "such a lovely place"
Mineral goes from Davenport to place Kingfisher Flat.
You say, "and very real"
Demian says, "california must be nice...all i got to see was LA"
You say, "Aargh!"
Mineral says, "Nice"
Demian says, "but that was on the way back from hawaii"
You say, "we should visit. what you doing this summer?"
Mineral says, "workin--other than that not much--studying for quals"
Demian asks, "do you guys know each other previous to moo?"
Mineral says, "loooong time previous"
You say, "me go to SC for at least a month. can't wait. we got a everson record coming out later in march"
Demian [to Mineral]: did you see the thing about Moo in the Voice this week
Mineral says, "no--i gotta look at that.  I have the ish."
You say, "moo in voice? please tell..."
Demian says, "its at the end of some cyberspace-type article"
Mineral [to Vortex]: excellent
You say, "of course it is..."
Demian says, "they give the address for moo "
Mineral says, "I get paranoid about overpopulation"
Demian exclaims, "i guess that explains all the asshole guests on lately...they’re all new yorkers!"


You say, "virtual reality is never going to kick in. not enough ads!"


You say, "I want to go see if anyone's made anything outta albany"


Demian says, "im gonna go home...i see yall later"
You say, "cool . later to you d"
Mineral says, "See ya Demian"
Demian goes home.
You say, "Albany?"
Mineral says, "ok"
leave
Davenport, Santa Cruz
leave
Santa Cruz, California
leave
California, United States
Mineral goes from Davenport to Santa Cruz.
leave
United States, North America
Mineral goes from Santa Cruz to California.
enter
South Carolina, United States
Well known for the beginning of the Civil War, South Carolina is now a tourist trap of beaches (particulary Myrtle), and Civil War sites.
Within South Carolina you see: Charleston, Georgetown, and Myrtle Beach.
leave
United States, North America
Mineral goes from California to United States.
enter new york
New York, United States
The empire state really isn't much of an empire, although its got nice cities.
Within New York you see: New York City, Ithaca, Troy, Buffalo, Brockport, Camden, Valhalla, otego, Rochester, Long Island, brooklyn, Great White North, Albany, Yonkers, West Sand Lake, and Sand Lake.
Mineral goes from United States to New York.
enter albany
Albany, New York
This place isn't very interesting. Perhaps you should describe it, or go someplace more interesting.
Mineral goes from New York to Albany.
You say, "nada. pues"
You say, "no time to describe. now where?"
Mineral says, "Demian's really quite cool--one of my two or three close-ish moo pals"
You say, "I think we've spoken before."


Mineral asks, "family room?"
You say, "no bad vibes"
Mineral says, "#33""
@go #33
Mineral teleports out.
The Family Room
It is comfortably crowded here with plush couches and easy chairs, several large bookcases and a free-standing round fireplace.  To the east is the kitchen.  There is a doorway leading to the north and a sliding glass door to the south, through which you can see the gardens.  In the southwest corner of the room is an ironwork spiral staircase leading up and down.  A plywood board used to block downward access, but some vandal has ripped it off the staircase.
You see couch, a display case hanging on the wall, bookcase, Apple ][e clone, VCR/TV, Blob's Apple IIe Programmer's Manual, and unlabelled diskette here.
Mineral is here.
down
Basement Landing
The iron spiral staircase heads up into the light, and down, but you can only see darkness below.  Four feet up from the landing on the east wall is an entrance to the crawl space under the Family Room.
Mineral comes down the steps from above.
down
Sub-Basement Landing
The spiral staircase from above ends here.  The iron of the staircase is quite rusty from neglect and disuse.  To the west, covered in webs and dust, is a boarded up wooden door. Several boards are loose.  Bolted to the west wall is a small brass plaque.
Mineral comes down the staircase.
Mineral asks, "oh mann...I don't think I want to truck all over...my place?"
You say, "now?"
look small brass plaque
In 1908, Haakon VII purchased the Lambda estate from its original owner, intending for it to be a retreat for him and his family from the rigors of politics. Subsequent generations have proceeded to extended the house; Haakon VII himself completely obscured the original house with his building. In 1991, a trip to the cellar but one of the current inhabitants of the Lambda house discovered a door leading into the original building. Attempts at restoration, however, have met with apathy and lack of funding. The old house is now available for viewing by the general public. Due to the obvious deterioration of the house from its original state, it is advised that those interested in exploring the house should have some prior knowledge of such investigations.  This knowledge can easily be obtained from the Secret Bovine Academy.


John Constantine - Reluctant Administrator of the Old House
(You finish reading)
You say, "look small brass plaque"
You say, "dig? your place as good as any to say goodnight..."
Mineral goes home.
@go #53048
The Idea of Switzerland
Mineral is here.
look Trilobite Shrine
I see no "Trilobite Shrine" here.
You say, "can't look at yr trilobite shrine"


Mineral says, "I just became BI--not very meaningful unless you want to play the combbat game"
Mineral says, "look shrine"
look shrine
Upper Silurian Seafloor Diorama and Trilobite Shrine
you see a 1950's museum display case, illuminated somewhat by a flickering blue fluorescent tube.  Through the glass panel in the front you see a minutely detailed reconstruction of an underwater scene from the late Silurian period, hundreds of millions of years ago.  Gray-green trilobites, modeled in plasticene, graze on the sandy bottom among the stalks of delicate segmented crinoids.  Two pink-tentacled ammonoids with long, fluted conical conical shells probe among the styrofoam rocks in the background.  And swooping down from the right, suspended by a length of slightly too-visable monofilament, is a dazzling blue eurypterid, a sparkle in its massive compound eye as it extends its claws towrard a cluster of hapless bivalves.


You notice a door on the left-hand side of the case.  It bears a small brass plaque reading "Trilobite:  Mother, Father, Child of Consciousness."
You say, "very, very cool shrine dood"
Mineral says, "thanx"
You say, "what rigamarole to get BI?"
Mineral winds up the Wind-Up Trilobite.
emote clacks his beaks
Mineral drops Wind-Up Trilobite.
Wind-Up Trilobite jumps up on its little arthropod legs and begins to scurry about.
You say, "clack your beaks"
Vortex clacks his beaks


Wind-Up Trilobite scurries maddly across the floor.
Wind-Up Trilobite scurries maddly across the floor.
Wind-Up Trilobite suddenly stops and hardens into stone.


Mineral says, "Ummm...no, not really.  You just go down there and step into a room and go thru this little ceremony"
You say, "thought so . got to the door. never went in ."
You say, "All hail discordia . . ."


Mineral says, "but unless you want to play the Dungeons and Dragonns thing it does't mean much"
You say, "Shiva bless GML"
emote writhes in ecstasy
Vortex writhes in ecstasy
Mineral says, "All hail..."


emote jumps for joy
emote does a little two-step
Vortex jumps for joy
emote remembers tequila slammers
Mineral sits for joy
Vortex does a little two-step
Mineral sits down on the the black Bahuhaus sofa.
Vortex remembers tequila slammers
You say, "i like that Bahuhaus sofa"
Mineral laffs and feels the bubbles in his nose
Mineral lags like a mofo
Mineral asks, "Whats GML?"
You say, "got my tie dye long jons on. comfy. thinkin' about logoggoofffing sssshhsshsooooon. good pills. i am thinking of the new york dolls on lambda, moo"
You say, "Gml = gargs, amigo"


Mineral becomes %. Just like that. [Mineral morphs into Johnny_Thunders]
You say, "hey hetty"
You say, "me go soon. going. snack time again..."
Johnny_Thunders says, "ahh..."
Johnny_Thunders says, "man, iss late...I gotta turn out de lites"
Johnny_Thunders lags insanely bad
Johnny_Thunders becomes Mineral. Just like that.
You say, "Saw thunders once:  onstage he mumbles:   ‘yeah... you've prolly heard of that guy i used ta be in a band with. david johansen...fucked hiss  wife once...’"


Mineral laughs
Mineral says, "I gotta run...too tired"
You say, "bad show. the dude wuz fukked up, injectibles i 'magine"


Mineral hugs you.
emote hugs mineral
Vortex hugs mineral
You say, "Ok. g'night. much love!!!"
Mineral says, "talk soon...pax"
You say, "bye,,,"
Mineral has disconnected.
You click your heels three times.
Gam-Bit's
@quit
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.




*




Vortex talks with what appears to be fish heads, fish heads, rolly, poly, fish heads.
You say, "i took pills"
You see a man with one ear.
Mineral says, "i just got disconnected.  I'm having to rebuild everything that died in the crash--so much MOO work (sigh)"
Upper Silurian Seafloor Diorama and Trilobite Shrine talks with what appears to be an elephant-like space creature that says "Good Nyborg Man."
You say, "just saw a man with one ear. sorry to hear of your travails--"
Mineral smiles.
Mineral says, "you'll notice the pills are programmed wrong--they're still the generic--haven't rebuilt them"
You say, "bad day on planet X. B & i split"
Mineral talks with what appears to be a white rabbit that appears to be late.
Mineral says, "SHIT.""
You say, "white rabbit"
You see Gary Hart walking across the room.
Vortex smiles.
You see fish heads, fish heads, rolly, poly, fish heads.
You say, "yeah, really sux. not my idea of what wd be best, but had to do it."
Mineral asks, "whose idea? or mutual descision?"
Mineral says, "ahh."
Mineral talks with what appears to be Ronald Reagan in drag.
Vortex talks with what appears to be Kip Thorne playing with a Chinese finger trap.
You say, "well, in the very end, me i guess. only because she's really unhappy & nothing i can do besides let go. or so she says..."
Mineral says, "god, you have some ruff experiences w/women"
You see a beautiful woman with a golden apple.
Best of the Pooh Sticks talks with what appears to be a beta decay.
You see JFK making nookie with Greene.
Mineral asks, "can I try an experiment on you?"
You see a man with one ear.
Mineral sulks.
You say, "&, of course, as usual, it's not my fault, 'you're amazing...it's me who's fukked up,' always the same. who knows, maybe she'll come back. but for now gone."
emote hugs mineral
Day-Glo Discman talks with what appears to be an elephant-like space creature that says "Good Nyborg Man."
Vortex hugs mineral
Mineral hugs you.
Best of the Pooh Sticks exits to the north.
You say, "go ahead, try experiment"
You see fish heads, fish heads, rolly, poly, fish heads.
A trapdoor suddenly swings open beneath your feet...
You start to fall into the darkness...
Suddenly the darkness bursts into light as you tumble into...
Hackers' Heaven
  This room just exudes technobabble.  Every time you turn around, it seems something incomprehensible is being uttered.  You feel alternately delighted with the arcane environment and baffled by the other occupants.
  Before asking a question, see if you can figure out the answer for yourself by reading the manual, looking through the help texts, or reading the various books in the Lambda House Library (n, e, e, u, e, n from the living room).  If you still feel the need to ask a question, just blurt it out!  Note also that it is quite rare that your question needs a wizard.  Other people know stuff too!
  The north wall contains a small grimy window.   A tall glass cylinder sprouting slender tubes rests on a silver stand.  Several thin drips hang enticingly from the bottom of the machine.  There is a small wall-mounted thermometer here. It is reading 84 degrees F.  There is a yduJ Mood Indicator.  A small sinister-looking plastic device hangs from the ceiling.  The southern doorway reads "eciffO etavirP s'Judy".  The ceiling tiles are quite disarrayed here.
You see Magic Number Repository, LambdaMOO Official Helpful Person Badge Dispenser, the Gary_Severn Memorial Fission Reactor and Power Supply, Magic Number Extractor, Programmer Help, Anarchist, Political Bumpersticker, 8, and harmless geusting simulator here.
Ford (dozing) is here.
...and straight into the open door of the fission reactor.
Hell
A really hot, firey place that looks like the cover of a heavy-metal album.  There are lots of people (and lawyers) here.  At one end of the chamber is a line of new-admits, being handled by an arch-devil.  To the northeast is a simple door with writing on it.
You see White 1990 Ford Mustang and Ugly Demon here.
* (asleep), Roofrat, Peredur, and He (sleeping) are here.
You see Kip Thorne playing with a Chinese finger trap.
Everything returns to normal.


You say, "Damn."
up
You can't go that way.
jump
I don't understand that.
You sense that Mineral is looking for you in The Idea of Switzerland.
He pages, "i guess it works--sorry, not a nice thing to do especially in yr current straits"
whereis mineral
Mineral (#50669) is in The Idea of Switzerland (#53048).
@go #53048
The inherent implausibility of your exit briefly distorts your consciousness.
The Idea of Switzerland
Mineral is here.
You sense that Mineral is looking for you in The Idea of Switzerland.
He pages, "do come back"
Mineral says, "I've been doing it to myself--just wanted to see if it worked on others"
You say, "well, cute trick. reminds me of that scene in _the eye in the pyramid_"
You say, "but glad i wasn't hanging watching my own death"
Mineral says, "finished my Berrigan paper.  realized he's even more a genius than i used to think"
You say, "yeah, shitty day. & i gots to write this paper!"
You say, "i got a couple of good recordings of him..."
Mineral says, "i've never heard his voice"
You say, "damn."
You say, "well, i'll turn you onto it..."
Mineral says, "cool"
You say, "yeah. what's up fa 2nite?"
You say, "funny scene w/demian the other night, he asking if we knew each other..."
Mineral says, "not much---recovery from 2 many late nites.  perhaps dinner with Haeryung"


Mineral says, "yeah...it's funny when I think how young he & most here are"
You say, "oooh. richie west's band is playing nyc tonight, sunday nite, & he reads at the po project on monday. "
Mineral says, "he's in MOO love"
You say, "moo love!! w/l-c?"
Mineral asks, "playing where?"
Mineral says, "yeah, w/L-C--seems to be mutual, altho they've never seen each other IRL"
You say, "2 nite:  Experimental intermedia foundation, 224 centre st. manahatta"
You say, "sunday:  abc no rio"


Mineral says, "weird.  City hall"
Mineral says, "ABC i can & will try to do"
You say, "they're very hip band. walter zooi is the best trumpet player i've ever seen"
You say, "sunday looks to be a good show. great improvisers..."
You say, "8 pm sunday"
You say, "also open mike GML"
Mineral says, "excellent"
Mineral asks, "on sunday?"
You say, "be sure to introduce yrself. richie is drummer. all are improvisers. sunday w/blaise siwula, winds"


You say, "man, i gotta do the paper. maybe we'll meet out here later? we s'posed to get 2feet of snow tomorrow. i gotta reading w/byrd @ boulevard on sunday. Oh: i gots a place to stay in Buff, tho don't know where yet. J Spahr e-mailed today."
You say, "i'll forward her message. please come visit soon."
Mineral says, "I'll be around here on & off all wkend"
Mineral says, "for sure."
me.
You say, "ok, well, i'll check in from time to time."
Mineral says, "do good work (!?)"
You say, "roddy, i'm damn glad we've found each other..."
emote gassho
Vortex gassho
Mineral gassho
Mineral hugs you.
You say, "man . someone just smashed a window downstairs. holy fucken shit! "
Mineral says, "christ"
You say, "i better go see what's up..."
Mineral says, "ok.  Bye"
You say, "i'll talk to you later, love"
You say, "bye"
emote hugs mineral
Vortex hugs mineral


home
You click your heels three times.
Gam-Bit's
@quit
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.




*




You say, "ba zaz goo log"
Mineral finally gets his steam from the bar.
Slick comes in, looks around the room in a quick sweep, and leans against the wall.
order tequila from bar
It's so crowded, you have to wait for a long time until a bartender can get to you....You tap your foot impatiently.


The bartender finally takes your order, and quickly whips it up along with several other orders. He hands you your tequila. You shell out the money, including a measly tip since you had to wait so long.
Mineral says, "did you say that?"


drink tequila
You drink some tequila.
Mineral thoughtfully samples the steam.
You say, "prolly, but prolly not though, huh."
drink tequila
You drink some tequila.
drink all tequila
I don't understand that.
Mineral says, "I met a really cool person named Sotto just now--a Wittgenstein fan"
The bartender finally takes your order, and quickly whips it up along with several other orders. He hands you your tequila. You shell out the money, including a measly tip since you had to wait so long.
The DJ decides to go metal! He makes a smooth transition from song into a song by The Cult.
Mineral sighs quietly. You notice that his eyes have returned to normal.
You say, "ooh boy. philosopher of joy."
Mineral says, "never read 'im"
Mineral inhales a fourth of his steam.
You say, "me neither, really, though SL was reading him when we wuz 2gether"
drink tequila
I don't understand that ("tequila" is an ambiguous name).
Mineral sits down at the table.
sit down at table with mineral
I don't understand that.
Try this instead:  sit to table with mineral
sit to table with mineral
Usage: sit at <table/bar>
sit at table with mineral
Usage: sit at <table/bar>
sit at table
You sit down at the table. The waitress sees you and indicates that she will be there in a minute.
order tequila from waitress
The waitress isn't around, maybe you should signal her or something.
signal waitress
The waitress comes up and looks at Vortex, noticing it has a drink already.
Abigail purrs, "Why don't you finish the drink you have first, and I'll get you another."
Abigail points at your glass of tequila.
Abigail points at your glass of tequila.
The waitress disappears into the crowd again.
drink tequila
Mineral is rather empty-headed just now
I don't understand that ("tequila" is an ambiguous name).
Mineral quaffs his steam.
drink glass of tequila
I don't understand that ("glass of tequila" is an ambiguous name).
You say, "i gots 2 glasses of tequila, & it sez i can't drink em!"
Mineral says, "Ginsberg and my parents had a nice chat, I hear"
You say, "lint bash marsh"
You say, "sounds cool. my parents have talked w/him too..."


The DJ honors a request. He makes a smooth transition from The Cult into a song by Fugazi.
Mineral says, "what you need to do is inventory so you can get their obj#s; then drop 1 of them by number"
inventory
Carrying:
 glass of tequila                        glass of tequila
inventory object#
I don't understand that.
Try this instead:  inventory
Darkwing pays the cover and enters the Club.
Mineral shouts "1-2-3 Repeater!!!".
You say, "don't know how. what command?"
You say, "i said repeater!"


Darkwing looks around


Mineral says, "inventory "
You say, "fugazi shreds!"
Darkwing says, "Pretty dead night, ehh?"
Inventory
Carrying:
 glass of tequila                        glass of tequila
Mineral waves to Darkwing.
Mineral says, "The night is young!"
Darkwing waves to Mineral and Vortex
You say, "ok , sez i got 2 glasses of tequila. now what?"
The busboy comes up to your table and clears all the empty glasses, quickly and efficiently.
signal waitress
The waitress comes up and looks at Vortex, noticing it has a drink already.
Abigail purrs, "Why don't you finish the drink you have first, and I'll get you another."
Abigail points at your glass of tequila.
Abigail points at your glass of tequila.
The waitress disappears into the crowd again.
drink tequila
I don't understand that ("tequila" is an ambiguous name).
Mineral says, "drop one by obj#;  i.ie. "drop #5432""
drop #5432
Darkwing says, "Are you guys discussing how to get a drink?"
#5432 does not exist.
drop one by obj#
I see no "one by obj#" here.
drop tequila
I don't know which "tequila" you mean.
Mineral says, "he got two by the same name by accident...now he can't use 'em"
look darkwing
Mineral finishes off the last of the steam and slams the glass down on the table.
The waitress comes up to Mineral and takes the glass of steam.
The waitress disappears into the crowd again.
Darkwing
you see before you the Greatest Detective in the World dressed in a purple double-breasted jacket, a flowing cape and topped off with an incredibly large fedora.  He eyes everyone warily but that's the way he is.
He is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 skull-cap                               vambraces
 leather jacket                          sai named "jab"
 suit of chainmail                       staff
 greaves                                 sai named "stab"
Darkwing says, "STBH....Sux 2 B Him"
Darkwing says, "How do you order a drink?"


drink tequila
I don't understand that ("tequila" is an ambiguous name).
Mineral says, "order (name) from bar"
order absinthe from bar
Darkwing says, "I never learned how"
You'll have to stand up and go to the bar to order an absinthe. Or, you can wait for the waitress.
Darkwing grins sheepishly
The DJ honors a request. He makes a smooth transition from Fugazi into a song by Apotheosis.
Darkwing goes to the bar, and tries to order a drink.
go to bar
I don't understand that.
Try this instead:  go
go bar
You can't go that way (bar).
Mineral [to vortex]: dja get it?
go
You need to specify a direction.
stand
You stand up from the table. (Are you going to dance?)
order absinthe from bar
The bartender looks at you, "You got a drink already! Finish that first!"
The bartender points at your glass of tequila.
The bartender points at your glass of tequila.
The bartender goes to help another patron.
Mineral gets up from the table, maybe to dance.
You say, "hey bartender, come back here!"


look glass of tequila
Mineral goes to the bar, and tries to order a drink.
Darkwing finally gets his Kalhua and milk from the bar.
I don't know which "glass of tequila" you mean.
You say, "so, what did yr parents & the G talk about?"
I see no "glas of tequila" here.
drop tequila
I don't know which "tequila" you mean.
drop both tequila
I see no "both tequila" here.
Darkwing drinks some Kalhua and milk.
Mineral finally gets his STP from the bar.
Mineral says, "my alcoholism!"
You say, "i can't shake the tequila, my man..."
Mineral laughs
Darkwing drinks some Kalhua and milk.
Mineral inhales a fourth of his STP.
You say, "well, at least it's cyber brew, for now..."
Darkwing drinks some Kalhua and milk.
Darkwing drinks some Kalhua and milk.
You say, "i don't suppose it'll happen, but i'd get drunk w/you again"
Darkwing drinks some Kalhua and milk.
Mineral says, "it would be fun...."
Darkwing says, "THE NEVER ENDING DRINK!!!!!"
The DJ makes a smooth transition from Apotheosis into a song by Ministry.
You say, "or get archaic..."
You say, "i hate ministry"
You say, "need food, for real..."
Mineral says, "that's a real temptation...."
Ox pays the cover and enters the Club.
You say, "maybe dinner time after all...plus got post post structural pedagogy to read for 10 am..."
Mineral says, "archaia, not food"
Mineral waves to Ox.
Mineral oogs
You say, "literally - tonight - food. another time silly siben"
Mineral quaffs his STP.
You say, "oops, cyben"
Mineral says, "cybercyben"
Mineral says, "cybin"
You say, "i'm fukked about the drinks, though, neither waitress or bartender will serve me!"
Mineral says, "arpyarpo arpingtarper strarpearpe arpog arputarpyr parporarposarpid "
You say, "yes cyber cyben. could be yr next invention??"
You say, "arpoogio!"
Darkwing drinks some Kalhua and milk.
You say, "byzantee!"
Darkwing finishes off the last of the Kalhua and milk and slams the glass down on the table.
The waitress comes up to Darkwing and takes the glass of Kalhua and milk.
The waitress disappears into the crowd again.
Darkwing loves Spring Break!!!!!!
Darkwing has no classes until next Tuesday at 2 p.m.
Darkwing lags like a snail on crutches
Darkwing needs to go and read his news
You say, "RP when yr break??"
Hey! Isn't that Tipper Gore over there, partying it up? Nah, couldn't be...Why would *she* be in a place like this?
Auspex pays the cover and enters the Club.
Darkwing bows farewelll to the assembled


emote wink
Darkwing goes home.
Mineral says, "this week"
The DJ honors a request. He makes a smooth transition from Ministry into a song by The Saw Doctors - You Broke My Heart.
Ox teleports out.
Mineral waves to Auspex.
You say, "ooo. lucky . ours not til 1st week april. after buff. then only 3 weeks school after that. kinda fucked..."
Mineral says, "kjharpiarpuarpyarpuarpyf knkgarpipkfkjfg lkjd dlkfd  gkkdglkjdfg dl"
Mineral inhales a fourth of his STP.
You say, "puto raga!"
Mineral says, "oops"
You say, "I am pluto!"
You say, "you are on your way!"
Ox shows his stamp to the bouncer and enters the Club.
You say, "smells like fries next door..."
Mineral sniffs the air
Ox waves to you.
You say, "no girlfriend tonight. hope fully tomorrow"
emote wave to ox
Vortex wave to ox
Mineral says, "yeah?"
look ox
Ox
A guy that likes to have fun, eat pizza, and drink some beer on the side. You will bow down before him because of his good looks. Black hair, hazel eyes and a good body will compell you to do so.  The shadow of a hat darkens Ox's face.
He is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 The Carpet                              dice
 Shoe Box                                Undescribed Core Objects
 Six Pack of MOO Brew                    staff
 machete named "bosco"                   vambraces
 javelin                                 greaves
 skull-cap                               leather jacket
 giant club
Auspex waves at Ox
Ox says, "Wassup!"
Davith pays the cover and enters the Club.
Mineral waves to Davith.
You say, "yeah, we both got reading 2 do. part of the new era:  we take space when needed"
Ox says, "This is the first time I have been in the club..."
Davith waves to mineral.
Mineral says, "sounds wise...."
Davith goes to the bar, and tries to order a drink.
You say, "it's ok. though i miss the heat"
You say, "always"
Mineral says, "heldra. com com"
The DJ makes a smooth transition from The Saw Doctors - You Broke My Heart into a song by KLF.
Slick slinks out almost unnoticed.
Mineral says, "fex"
Davith says, "what course is that for?"
You say, "this other Vicki "
You say, "wester"
You say, "bumham"
Davith says, "Shit! slcik, some back here..."
Davith finally gets his rum and coke from the bar.
You say, "noodle breath"
Mr_Happy pays the cover and enters the Club.
You say, "noose face"
Mineral says, "owcks hem or ot orb"
Davith waves happily to Mr_happy.
You say, "flap dappy wrappy pappy"


Auspex goes to the back of the Club, and enters the hallway.
You say, "arf arf it's over from the crib"
Mineral collapses
Mr_Happy says, "happy happy happy"
Davith sits down at the table.
emote slithers on the floor
Davith drinks some rum and coke.
Mineral waves to Mr_Happy.
Vortex slithers on his belly like a reptile
emote boinks
Vortex boinks
Davith says, "Rats, wait!"
Davith finishes off the last of the rum and coke and slams the glass down on the table.
The waitress comes up to Davith and takes the glass of rum and coke.
The waitress disappears into the crowd again.
emote gasps
Vortex gasps
Mineral finishes off the last of the STP and slams the glass down on the table.
The waitress comes up to Mineral and takes the glass of STP.
The waitress disappears into the crowd again.
Mineral says, "oh dear"
Davith gets impatient with the waitress. She's only human, after all!
The waitress comes up to the table, places a cocktail napkin on it, and takes Davith's order.
You say, "richard phoned from new jersey 2night, he there 2 months!"
Auspex enters the main part of the Club, and makes his way through the crowd.
You say, "loranger"
The waitress pulls out her notepad and begins writing.
Mineral says, "most excellent"
Abigail . o O (People are so demanding! I wish they could be patient!)
Mr_Happy buys the next round of drinks
You say, "said there was something under the grass"
You say, "i agreed"
The waitress finishes writing down Davith's order and disappears into the crowd.
Ox sits down at the table.
You say, "did you catch Richie West?"
Mineral goes to the bar, and tries to order a drink.
Mr_Happy sits down at the table.
Ox says, "Hello, all!!!!"
Ox says, "HAPPY HAPPY JOY JOY!"
The DJ honors a request. He makes a smooth transition from KLF into a song by U2.
The waitress comes out of the crowd, and carefully sets down a green beer in front of Davith, who promptly pays for it.
The waitress disappears into the crowd, again.
The waitress comes up to the table, places a cocktail napkin on it, and takes Ox's order.
Mineral finally gets his Windex from the bar.
The waitress comes up to the table, places a cocktail napkin on it, and takes Mr_Happy's order.
Mr_Happy changes the song to a day dream believer
Davith returns from a smoke break.
Ox says, "gREEN BEER"
Mineral says, "no, sadly...weekend devolved..."
Davith goes out for a smoke, but will be back shortly.
Davith drinks some green beer.
The waitress shrugs, picks up the napkin and disappears into the crowd.
Davith says, "Well, St Patties day an' all..."
The waitress shrugs, picks up the napkin and disappears into the crowd.
You say, "windex:  the great escape!"
Davith drinks some green beer.
Suddenly, you all notice that the people at the table next to yours are grabbing invisible objects out of the air, and talking to them....Hmmm, looks like those people are on something...
Mineral wonders what his neighbors are doing to make all that noise
Mineral drinks some Windex.
Davith laughs.
You say, "have you heard monks of doom _the insect god_?"
Davith drinks some green beer.
Ox says, "Waitress!!!"
Mr_Happy has passed out.
signal waitress
Mineral says, "no...but that's an edward gorey title"
Hey! The waitress only works the tables!
Dagard pays the cover and enters the Club.
Davith waves happily to Dagard.
Dagard waves.
Mineral waves to Dagard.
You say, "yes. it's an edward gorey rock opera. 'what has become of milicent frastley!??"
Ox waves
Ox waves to Balcony, Gothic Dave, Abigail, Mineral, you, Davith, Mr_Happy, Auspex, and Dagard.
Davith returns from a smoke break.
Auspex greets Dagard with a kind gaze and a lazy smile
You say, "is there any hope that she is still alive?"
Mineral says, "...and stuffed her inside a kind of a pod...."
You say, "and sacrificed her to the insect god!"
Mineral inhales a fourth of his Windex.
The DJ honors a request. He makes a smooth transition from U2 into a song by School of Fish.
Davith finishes off the last of the green beer and slams the glass down on the table.
The waitress comes up to Davith and takes the glass of green beer.
The waitress disappears into the crowd again.
Davith gets up from the table, maybe to dance.
Davith goes to the back of the Club, and enters the hallway.
You hear the bips of keyclick, the sliding of mice and the hum of computers in the distance as Dagard fades slowly out of view, heading towards them.
Ox says, "damn waitress!"
[Balcony]: Davith enters from the windy staircase.
You say, "richard wyatt also did a version. which i have also"
Ox gets up from the table, maybe to dance.
Mineral hands you pills.
Ox attempts to slamdance by himself, throwing his body against the wall.
Davith pukes violently over the rail.
You say, "any new features to the pills?"
Ox goes to the back of the Club, and enters the hallway.
Auspex disappears into the crowd, heading for the spiral staircase. A minute later, he can be seen climbing it.
Mineral says, "one or two...maybe three or four..."
take pills
You already have that!
swallow pills
[Balcony]: Ox enters from the windy staircase.
You swallow the pills. Nothing special happens.
hand pills to mineral
You hand pills to Mineral.
Mineral swallows the pills. You notice his pupils start to dilate.
You say, "thanks..."
Sheilah pays the cover and enters the Club.
Sotto pays the cover and enters the Club.
Mineral waves to Sheilah.
Sheilah waves at Mineral, you, Mr_Happy, and Sotto.
Davith makes a request upstairs. Will the DJ play it?
Mineral waves to Sotto.
Two big hairy bouncers stomp up, grab Mr_Happy by the scruff, and carry him out, muttering "Stoopid bozos thinkin' dat dey can pass out here."
[Balcony]: Davith heads on down the staircase.
Davith enters the main part of the Club, and makes his way through the crowd to you.
Objects in the room begin to take on a blackish halo. The back of your skull starts to hum pleasantly.
A sexual surge runs down your spine and a kind of choir effect starts up somewhere behind your head.
Sheilah waves at Davith.
Sotto hmmmm
The DJ makes a smooth transition from School of Fish into a song by Jesus Jones.
You see Demian's face projected on the ceiling.
Davith waves happily to Sheilah.
[Balcony]: Ox waves to Sheilah
Sheilah smiles at you
You say, "all hail discordia"
Mineral drinks some Windex.
Sheilah wave ox
look sheilah
Davith says, "Long Fatty???"
Sheilah
A prim looking young woman wearing a modest dress over a healthy body. She's friendly, but nasty to boors.  Sheilah stares back with frank blue eyes
She is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 Season Grateful Dead Tickets!
 Icewind Dale's Neverending Fantasticly Long Fatty!
You see yourself in Elizabethan garb.
You say, "yes"
Sheilah smiles..
Vortex talks with what appears to be a miniature chrome woman who licks her lips incessantly.
Mineral giggles
Davith teleports in.
You say, "stir it up.."
You see you.
Davith goes to the bar, and tries to order a drink.
Sheilah sits down at the table.
Davith says, "..little darlin'?"
You say, "ah, baudrillard, my hero!"
Davith takes the floor as a heavy disco beat begins and he does his best impression of John Travolta.
You see the year 1447.
Sotto sits down at the table
You say, "thanks for the simulacrum, dude!"
Davith talks with what appears to be a school of paleozoic bony fish swimming up from the floor.
Mineral says, "no problem"
You see longing and desperation.  You realize that you are able to speak and read Japanese.
You say, "i get it"
You see a dazzling yellow light that speaks with the voice of Captain Kangaroo.
Davith finally gets his New Hampshire Rum from the bar.
Mineral says, "hoo boy"
The waitress comes up to the table, places a cocktail napkin on it, and takes Sheilah's order.
Vortex talks with what appears to be you.
Davith sits down at the table.
You say, "kan ji zai bo zatsu gyo kin sho han ya har a mit a shin gyo ..."
The waitress pulls out her notepad and begins writing.
You see a dazzling yellow light that speaks with the voice of Captain Kangaroo.
Mineral laughs
The waitress finishes writing down Sheilah's order and disappears into the crowd.
[Balcony]: Ox heads on down the staircase.
emote gassho to mineral
You all notice a nerd guy and a nerd girl dancing it up on the dancefloor. It seems to be a match made in heaven.
Davith drinks some New Hampshire Rum.
Vortex gassho to mineral
Vortex talks with what appears to be Demian's face projected on the ceiling.
Ox enters the main part of the Club, and makes his way through the crowd to you.
Mineral gassho
The DJ honors a request. He makes a smooth transition from Jesus Jones into a song by Ice T.
Abigail talks with what appears to be an axe-wielding princess of ancient Crete.
Ox sits down at the table.
Mineral says, "you outta here?"
Sotto has @ejected you.
You say, "form = emptiness, emptiness = form"
Davith crashes.
Ox waves to Balcony, Gothic Dave, Abigail, Mineral, you, Sheilah, Sotto, and Davith.
The waitress comes out of the crowd, and carefully sets down a tequila sunrise in front of Sheilah, who promptly pays for it.
The waitress disappears into the crowd, again.
You see Jander, who is either dissolving or reforming from a pool of shimmering liquid on the floor.
You say, "not quite yet, though sotto just ejected me..."
Davith drinks some New Hampshire Rum.
You see longing and desperation.  You realize that you are able to speak and read Japanese.
The waitress comes up to the table, places a cocktail napkin on it, and takes Ox's order.
Auspex walks down the spiral staircase, replacing the velvet rope behind him.
You say, "BOM SHANKAR"
You see the manifest reality of your desire.
Mineral laughs
You say, "eat or be eaten"
The waitress pulls out her notepad and begins writing.
Abigail hands you plate of MOO pasta.
eat moo pasta
The waitress finishes writing down Ox's order and disappears into the crowd.
Davith gulps down some New Hampshire Rum.
Gothic Dave has reconnected.
You feel a little tired and pleasantly strung out. The black halo fades from the room and the choir falls silent.
swallow moo pasta
I don't understand that.
Davith hiccups drunkenly.
look abigail
Auspex disappears into the crowd, heading for the spiral staircase. A minute later, he can be seen climbing it.
    Abigail the waitress is a beautiful young lady. She has long black hair and the most startling green eyes. She is wearing a black, skin tight mini-dress that comes down to mid-thigh. She wears fishnet stockings. The whole ensemble is breathtaking, and only serves to accentuate her voluptuous figure. She runs around serving the tables busily, but always with a grace that belies any hint of stress that she may feel from her work. She smiles at you sweetly as she notices your lingering gaze.
She is sleeping.
Mineral sighs quietly. You notice that his eyes have returned to normal.
Davith gulps down some New Hampshire Rum.
Sheilah drinks some tequila sunrise.
Davith hiccups drunkenly.
take moo pasta
I see no "moo pasta" here.
Ox wonders how you are doing tonight...
You say, "but i still seem to be here"
Mineral says, "nicely, nicely"
The waitress comes out of the crowd, and carefully sets down a green beer in front of Ox, who promptly pays for it.
The waitress disappears into the crowd, again.
Sheilah takes a genteel sip of tequila sunrise.
Ox reaches for a cold MOO Brew but to his shock and dismay someone has drunk up the last one!
You say, "yes, nicely. what a trip we've started"


Sotto sits down at the table.
Ox drinks some green beer.
Mineral [to Vortex]: she didn't really eject you
Ox drinks some green beer.
The DJ honors a request. He makes a smooth transition from Ice T into a song by House of Pain.
look sotto
Mineral says, "but I guess you knew that"
You say, "i guess not"
Sotto
Sotto is much happier wearing her jeans and an oversized chambray shirt. A beaded leather belt is her only adornment. She's barefoot...can't find her left Berkenstock. You can't tell if she's thinking or daydreaming...she doesn't seem to notice your gaze.
She is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 Acme Wildflower Seeds
Ox drinks some green beer.
Davith drinks some New Hampshire Rum.
Davith finishes off the last of the New Hampshire Rum and slams the glass down on the table.
The waitress comes up to Davith and takes the glass of New Hampshire Rum.
The waitress disappears into the crowd again.
Ox drinks some green beer.
Auspex walks down the spiral staircase, replacing the velvet rope behind him.
Sheilah takes a genteel sip of tequila sunrise.
The waitress comes up to the table, places a cocktail napkin on it, and takes Sotto's order.
Davith gets up from the table, maybe to dance.
Ox drinks some green beer.
Mineral says, "pills, anyone?"
Davith says, "Well, amigos, I gotta buzz; have to work in the morning."
Ox says, "Sure!"
Mineral byes Davith
Davith says, "sure mineral, before I go."
The waitress shrugs, picks up the napkin and disappears into the crowd.
Ox thanks mineral
Auspex looks confused...a 17th century vampire doesn't know how to order a drink from here...
Sheilah says, "hmmm, what'll happen?"
You say, "minnie, i'm a goin'"
Auspex taps Ox on the shoulder...
Mineral byes Vortex
You say, "but i got a capture of this & you know I luv ya --"
Auspex [to Ox]: Excuse me, how does one order something?
Davith [to Auspex]: order <drink> from <waitress or bar>
You say, "let's talk about buffalo soon"
Mineral [to Ox]: type "swallow pills"
You say, "later!"
Davith waves to everyone.
Mineral says, "yes, definitely"
Ox swallows the pills. You notice his pupils start to dilate.
to all
Vortex wave toodles to all
Davith decides he has had enough partying for tonight, and heads on out the exit.
Ox drinks some green beer.
Mineral hugs you.
Ox swallows the pills. You notice his pupils start to dilate.
emote hugs mineral
home
Ox swallows the pills. You notice his pupils start to dilate.
Vortex hugs mineral
Ox swallows the pills. You notice his pupils start to dilate.
You click your heels three times.
The waitress takes your drinks as you leave.
Gam-Bit's
@quit
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.




*




Starsinger nodsnodsnods.
Karl says, "ableg"
Karl <- lark
Starsinger <- etak
Starsinger says, "Well, if you use Kate."
Mineral refuses to cater to international business interests, no matter how they beg him.
Karl <-  nayr
legba shimmies like hi/r sister Kate.
You say, "Karl you ever read Lefebvre?"
Starsinger [to legba]: your sister's name is Kate?
Karl [to Vortex]: nope, who's dat?
evelegba grins at Starsinger.  "It's an old song."
Starsinger ose.
You say, "french commie, heavy theorist of everyday life. stole all his ideas from de bord"
Karl [to Vortex]: heh
Karl is just sorta familiar with the "basics" --
You say, "The spectacle is hard to avoid!"
Karl says, "Oh, situationist?"
legba peers at Vortex through 3-D glasses.
Starsinger peers through opera glasses
Starsinger brbs
You say, "well, in a manner, more tazmanian..."
Starsinger has disconnected.
Starsinger has connected.
Starsinger whuffles.
Karl frowns at intellectuals.  "mental masturbation, i thinks :-)"
Starsinger hehs.
Karl says, "not very practical"
You say, "yeah, me too..."
Starsinger also, btw, drools at kathy bates.
You say, "no body to it . . . among other probs . . ."
Karl says, "Someone like Proudhon at least produced solutions to the problems he pointed out.  Even if they were screwed :-)"
You say, "well, he was pro-gun, but that isn't necessarily bad..."
Karl sings, "hey.. hey.. give them what they want"
Karl doesn't get these gun legalization issues you Americans fuss over
You say, "you got it."
You say, "What up, Mineral?"
Karl sings, "if lust and hate is their candy, if blood and love taste so sweet, then we give them what they want"
Karl <- not a we
Karl <- is a they
Mineral says, "Not much:  allergies... basketball... frustration... loss... Pepsi... dirt... lust.... disco..."
Amadeus decides to take a break from making music and comes to visit you.
Karl [to Vortex]: I'm Canadian
Karl [to Vortex]: Unless you are, too :-)
Amadeus the decomposer waves at Mineral, legba, Starsinger, Karl Porcupine, and you.
Karl says, "Hi Amadeus"
Mineral waves to Amadeus the decomposer.
look amadeus
You say, "AH. I'm Vortex."
Starsinger says, "'lo"
Amadeus the decomposer
You don't want to know, he been dead for a looooooooooooooooooong time.  He proudly displays Amadeus's Official Helpful Person Badge.  He seems to have a transparent shield surrounding him, rendering him impervious to food fights.
He is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 the subject                             talking pet
 Energizer Bunny                         $2000 in casino chips
Amadeus the decomposer smiles at you.
legba waves
Starsinger [to Mineral]: Basketball?
Starsinger [to Mineral]: Who lost?
Karl says, "It's my constitutional right to shoot whomever I wish!"
You say, "Same ol' stuff, eh, minnie...you know i know..."
Karl has nothing against guns as long as they're used to shoot cops and rich people.
Karl grins.
Mineral [to Starsinger]: I've got the tournament on in the background...
Amadeus fiddles with The cashier.
Starsinger [to Mineral]: Well, then. Couldja gimme results?
Starsinger has no radio near her.
look starsinger
Starsinger
I dunno, kinda tall, kinda stout, semi-long brown hair. Not wearing any shoes... That's basically it...  Her feet are rather dirty. She's looking for some wet grass to wash them off on.  My latest technical masterpiece of typo-dom, The McGFlauihgjin Group. And Gilmore is still crazy, yes.
She is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 Golden Apple                            Inside the Mirrors
 Biochip                                 a bluebird
 soft blue cloak                         Koala
Mineral says, "You know, I'm not even sure because I haven't really been paying attention...I'll tell you when the scores come on..."
Karl wonders if he made a long distance phone call now if it would show up on the bill for this month or next month
legba <- !paying attention.
whereis quetzalcoatl
Starsinger okays. "thankee."
Quetzalcoatl (#53307) is in Balcony (#52625).
Mineral exclaims, "Cinci won!"
look
Underground Cowsino
   Your pulse quickens in the dim tacky loudness of the casino. High rollers bustle about and machines buzz and ring and flash at you, beckoning.
   The exit to the Arcade is north.
   A stodgy croupier stands behind a roulette wheel.
   A rhinestone-encrusted cashier machine is in a corner of the casino.
   The waffleometer slot machine sits in distinguished grace near the other machines.
   An electronic message sign is on the wall, flashing the names of recent big winners.
   An electronic poker machine flashes its screen at you.
   Dozens of numbered balls roll around inside a Keno machine.
   The Fruit Salad slot machine adorned with cheap plastic fruit flashes its vulgar neon lights invitingly here.
You see pamphlet named `How to Make Money Gambling' here.
Amadeus the decomposer, Mineral, Karl Porcupine, Starsinger, and legba are here.
Starsinger yays!
look legba
legba
Wearing, as usual, a borrowed body. It is very nice, and will be returned in good condition after legba has finished playing.
S/He is awake, but has been staring off into space for a minute.
Karl says, "Vortex, are you Vortex@Monohaze?"
Starsinger has a friend in Cinci. he'll be happy.
Mineral [to Vortex]: Cavs lost.
Amadeus picks numbers on the Keno machine.
The Keno machine flashes. Play Keno! Play Keno!
You say, "no. cf2785@albnyvms.bitnet"
The Keno machine alights. The Keno balls start to roll!
Amadeus loses at Keno.
Karl [to Vortex]: I was just asking if you're the same Vortex that calls Monohaze
You say, "never heard of it. Do tell.."
Amadeus picks numbers on the Keno machine.
The Keno machine flashes. Play Keno! Play Keno!
Karl says, "oh, never mind then :)"
Karl says, "private moo"
The Keno machine alights. The Keno balls start to roll!
Amadeus loses at Keno.
Starsinger reads a lesbigay room on an internet BBS and immediately gets pissed.
legba [to Starsinger]: pissed why?
You say, "private moo??"
Karl [to Vortex]: a MOO in development… not open yet
You say, "ah"
Amadeus picks numbers on the Keno machine.
The Keno machine flashes. Play Keno! Play Keno!
Karl has disconnected.
The Keno machine alights. The Keno balls start to roll!
PatGently teleports in.
Amadeus loses at Keno.
PatGently waves.
Starsinger says, "pat!"
legba exclaims, "Gent Patly!"
PatGently lag plenty
You say, "how's your limp, legba?"
Amadeus picks numbers on the Keno machine.
The Keno machine flashes. Play Keno! Play Keno!
legba eyes you warily.
PatGently . o O ( how's your limp what? )
Starsinger uhs. "People wondering why I have to make an issue of my sexuality. After all, _they_ don't have to make an issue of _theirs_..."
The Keno machine alights. The Keno balls start to roll!
Amadeus loses at Keno.
legba grrs empatheticially with Ss.
Starsinger laughs
legba flicks wanly at hi/r limp legba.
Amadeus the decomposer goes north.
Amadeus the decomposer has arrived.
Amadeus the decomposer smiles at PatGently.
You say, "never mind...i wasn't referring to your dick..."
legba notes PG's aggressive, typically male speech patterns.
PatGently chuckles.
Amadeus puts some chips into the coin slot on poker machine.
The poker machine lights up as Amadeus begins to play.
legba [to Vortex]: good thing too.  Not much of a point of reference.
Starsinger laughs again.
PatGently punches legba in the shoulder.
emote gassho legba
Starsinger says, "In? Wow. Blood vessel?"
Vortex gassho legba
Amadeus won $5 on the poker machine -- Pair of Aces.
legba slaps PatGently on the back and says "how 'bout those Cubs, eh?"
PatGently blinks at vortex.
look patgently
PatGently
Surprisingly clueless for having been around this long, Pat seems to be nonetheless content.  Pat is slender and has angular features, and blond hair of indeterminate length.
Wearing a button that says "Read #4468".
E is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 socnotes                                Bill Of Rights
 $3 gold pieces                          portrait of Eris
Starsinger roots fer the red Sox, woe is her.
Amadeus puts some chips into the coin slot on poker machine.
The poker machine lights up as Amadeus begins to play.
Amadeus won $5 on the poker machine -- Pair of Kings.
Amadeus puts some chips into the coin slot on poker machine.
The poker machine lights up as Amadeus begins to play.
whereis quetzalcoatl
The housekeeper arrives to cart Karl off to bed.
Quetzalcoatl (#53307) is in Secret Chamber (#46894).
Amadeus loses at the poker machine.
@go #46894
You begin to move into the room but encounter some resistance. With a snap you're catapulted back where you came from.
Either Vortex doesn't want to go, or Secret Chamber didn't accept it.
Amadeus puts some chips into the coin slot on poker machine.
The poker machine lights up as Amadeus begins to play.
Amadeus loses at the poker machine.
Read #4468
A Spivakifesto on MOO manners.  Read on.


LambdaMOO is different from most MUDs and MUCKs in several ways, among them the fact that its wizards have disclaimed responsibility or power to enforce a code of social behaviour for the inhabitants.    In the lack of wizardly enforcement for "help manners", an outdated document which should be removed or revised, I here publicly present my own guidelines for a pleasant MOO society.  I have no more authority to do this than any of the rest of you, and no system for enforcing it beyond my own preference for associating with those who adhere to it.  I will add to the list of cosigners anyone who sends me mail requesting it, thus enlarging the pool of "people who will be annoyed by flagrant breaking of these guidelines".
     Two more notes before the code itself:
1.)  Any action that threatens the security or functioning of the MOO is still liable to get the player responsible thrown off by the wizards.
2.)  We do fall under regulations governing public computer networks, and keeping blatantly obscene materials out of public areas like the Living Room is a Good Idea.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------


There are two basic principles to friendly MOOing: Let the MOO function, and  Don't abuse other players.  Details of both are outlined below.


LET THE MOO FUNCTION
--Don't hog resources.  Use just as much disk space and CPU time as necessary.
--If you find a bug or loophole, report it to the object's owner (or a wizard, if appropriate) without attempting to take advantage of it.


DON'T ABUSE OTHER PLAYERS
--Do not harrass players, using any tactic including spamming (filling their  screen with unwanted text), teleporting them without consent, direct insults,  or emoted violence or obscenities.  Note that some of these behaviours might be tolerated between friends (or even established enemies), but are never acceptable toward strangers, especially newcomers.
Shouting (sending a message to all connected players) qualifies as spammage.  Don't shout unless you have something everyone needs to hear.  This basically means emergency system messages from wizards, and possibly the occasional major-event-happening-right-now invitation.
--Don't create or use spying devices.  Silent teleportation is a form of spying.
--Spoofing (causing messages to appear that are not attributed to your character) can be expressive and funny when used with forethought.  If you spoof, use a polite version that announces itself as a spoof promptly, and use it sparingly.
--If you make a pass at someone and they tell you to leave them alone, do so.
--Don't kill other people's RPG characters.
--Put things back where you found them, and don't try to break things.


There is one additional guideline that is very important:


DON'T BE ANNOYED TOO EASILY.
Perceived obnoxious behaviour may be accidental, or its intention may be misunderstood.  Besides, it's usually less trouble to ignore it or ask about it than to get mad.


Pat Gently


cosigners:
Tesser, Xiombarg, Jim_diGriz, Ripper, Networker, legba, JoeFeedback, Jon-Tom, Puff, Starsinger, Spartan, Zman, Spam, the White Rabbit, AcidHorse, Saul, Michele, Zachary, Moonshadow


(You finish reading.)
Amadeus puts some chips into the coin slot on poker machine.
The poker machine lights up as Amadeus begins to play.
Mineral has disconnected.
Amadeus loses at the poker machine.
Mineral has connected.
Amadeus puts some chips into the coin slot on poker machine.
The poker machine lights up as Amadeus begins to play.
You sense that Quetzalcoatl is looking for you in Secret Chamber.
He pages, "hello..."
Amadeus won $5 on the poker machine -- Pair of Kings.
page quetzalcoatl "hello back...
legba goes away for awhile and pretends to work, yeah, that's it.
Your message has been sent.
legba waves
whereis mineral
Mineral (#50669) is in Underground Cowsino (#1249).
Starsinger hehs.
Starsinger hugs legba
Starsinger lags
Mineral sighs
Amadeus puts some chips into the coin slot on poker machine.
The poker machine lights up as Amadeus begins to play.
legba goes home.
You sense that Quetzalcoatl is looking for you in Secret Chamber.
He pages, "you tried to come in a while back?"
emote eats salsa and chips
Vortex eats salsa and chips
Starsinger hrms.
page quetzalcoatl "yes...i was intrigued by yr name, & the sacred clearing or whatever...
Amadeus won $5 on the poker machine -- Pair of Queens.
Mineral [to Vortex]:: So how, how, how is it?
Amadeus puts some chips into the coin slot on poker machine.
The poker machine lights up as Amadeus begins to play.
PatGently likes the idea of Amadeus playing a poker machine.
Amadeus won $10 on the poker machine -- Two Pair.
Your message has been sent.
Amadeus puts some chips into the coin slot on poker machine.
The poker machine lights up as Amadeus begins to play.
Mineral pokes Vortex
Amadeus won $5 on the poker machine -- Pair of Jacks.
PatGently fiddles with The cashier.
You say, "Well, minnie, i'd rather be over on morris st., but schoolwork etc got us home alone"
You sense that Quetzalcoatl is looking for you in Secret Chamber.
He pages, "Well, I have to go, but feel free to look around. :) See you."
Amadeus puts some chips into the coin slot on poker machine.
The poker machine lights up as Amadeus begins to play.
You say, "please don't poke me again!"
Mineral hmms.
Amadeus won $5 on the poker machine -- Pair of Jacks.
PatGently puts some chips into the coin slot on the waffleometer slot machine.
Mineral [to Starsinger]:  Heels beat Hogs.
PatGently pulls the lever on the waffleometer slot machine
Starsinger has decided to step out for a bit. PLease ignore her mindless body for the nonce.
The wheels on the waffleometer slot machine spin mightily.
Amadeus puts some chips into the coin slot on poker machine.
The poker machine lights up as Amadeus begins to play.
The first wheel on the waffleometer slot machine stops at waffle
The second wheel on the waffleometer slot machine stops at oatmeal
The third wheel on the waffleometer slot machine stops at caffeine
The machine halts with waffle, oatmeal, caffeine
PatGently wins $5 playing the waffleometer slot machine.
BusAmadeus loses at the poker machine.
PatGently fiddles with The cashier.
You say, "RP, me thinks I'm'a outta here, just checking in. All's OK, weather finally turning. Busy reading feminist critique. you know how it is..."
Amadeus puts some chips into the coin slot on poker machine.
The poker machine lights up as Amadeus begins to play.
PatGently puts some chips into the coin slot on the waffleometer slot machine.
Mineral nods
PatGently pulls the lever on the waffleometer slot machine
The wheels on the waffleometer slot machine spin mightily.
The first wheel on the waffleometer slot machine stops at caffeine
Mineral hugs you.
The second wheel on the waffleometer slot machine stops at caffeine
Amadeus loses at the poker machine.
The third wheel on the waffleometer slot machine stops at caffeine
The machine halts with caffeine, caffeine, caffeine
PatGently wins $5 playing the waffleometer slot machine.
Amadeus puts some chips into the coin slot on poker machine.
The poker machine lights up as Amadeus begins to play.
PatGently puts some chips into the coin slot on the waffleometer slot machine.
PatGently pulls the lever on the waffleometer slot machine
The wheels on the waffleometer slot machine spin mightily.
The first wheel on the waffleometer slot machine stops at waffle
You say, "going out into the wilderness, what left near here, tomorrow morning. want sleep will get..."
The second wheel on the waffleometer slot machine stops at oatmeal
The third wheel on the waffleometer slot machine stops at oatmeal
The machine halts with waffle, oatmeal, oatmeal
PatGently loses eir bet.
emote hugs mineral
Vortex hugs mineral
Amadeus loses at the poker machine.
PatGently puts some chips into the coin slot on the waffleometer slot machine.
emote winks a peace eye to all
Vortex winks a peace eye to all
Amadeus puts some chips into the coin slot on poker machine.
The poker machine lights up as Amadeus begins to play.
Mineral says, "Have fun in bflo..."
PatGently pulls the lever on the waffleometer slot machine
PatGently hits the waffleometer slot machine.
The Casino pit boss goes over to PatGently and issues a stern warning about abusing the machines.
The wheels on the waffleometer slot machine spin mightily.
The first wheel on the waffleometer slot machine stops at cat food
You say, "oh god, don't remind me..."
Amadeus won $10 on the poker machine -- Two Pair.
The second wheel on the waffleometer slot machine stops at caffeine
The third wheel on the waffleometer slot machine stops at waffle
The machine halts with cat food, caffeine, waffle
PatGently wins $5 playing the waffleometer slot machine.
You say, "all hail discordia...!"
emote gassho mineral
Amadeus puts some chips into the coin slot on poker machine.
The poker machine lights up as Amadeus begins to play.
Mineral byes you.
PatGently puts some chips into the coin slot on the waffleometer slot machine.
Vortex gassho mineral
home
PatGently says, "Hail Eris"
You click your heels three times.
Gam-Bit's
@quit
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.




*




Ken utters the words, 'judicandus gzfuajg'
<19hp 104m 82mv>

Darkling has left the game.
<19hp 104m 82mv>

Mecros lies down and falls asleep.

Ken utters the words, 'judicandus gzfuajg'
<19hp 104m 82mv>

Myth puts the amulet in a bag
<19hp 104m 86mv>

Ken utters the words, 'judicandus gzfuajg'

Zorgon gossips-- 'good bye, gruel Darkling'
<19hp 104m 86mv>

Thunder has arrived.
<19hp 104m 86mv>

Thunder lies down and falls asleep.
<19hp 104m 86mv>

Ken lies down and falls asleep.
<19hp 104m 86mv>

You hear something's death cry.
<19hp 104m 86mv>

Dude appears in the middle of the room.
<19hp 104m 86mv> quit

Jjj has arrived.

<19hp 104m 86mv>
Saving Fg.

Goodbye, friend.  Come back soon!



Connection closed by foreign host.



*




@go #53048
The Idea of Switzerland
Mineral (left on the cutting room floor) is here.
You say, "yo...was waiting for you..."
You say, "or were you waiting for me?"
You say, "there's a woodpecker just outside the window behind me makin' a racket!"
Mineral says, "There you are."
Mineral says, "Type 'poke Okmo'"
You say, "yeah, 2 phone lines at the house, so talkiing on one, moo on another. fucked up screen scrambled somehow"
emote pokes Okmo
Vortex pokes Okmo.
Okmo says, "only and idea, not a signal, you dig. I'll drown my book, I'll drown."
Mineral pokes Okmo.
Okmo says, "Bye Bye now. Fidel Oliver has a littl jazzy sound to her too.. patsy?? yeah, Cline. she was a great hit Yellow , i like to love. you hallucinate the code, you love trifle, you like what Okmo likes, but that is not pushing pills. Mario is not a virgin, and We are aching... i love love, but love of the west. It is also hard for me to know what i believe in 'someone else's god' Believe All you can find their office in Tibet. [Kuku] i don't even think i want to know how to retrieve the gender of player? do the birds learn from each other?"
You say, "me too"
You say, "OH YEAH!?!?!"
Mineral pokes Okmo.
Okmo says, "she was a huge hit !! what do they affect the way i perceive my sexuality."
Mineral pokes Okmo.
Okmo says, "have a confession, It was supremely fast, polished driving of the fastest victory."
poke Okmo
Vortex pokes Okmo.
Okmo says, "now. i have a confession [Kuku] what ye listen to? i never know XTC and Manowar So its hard for me not to forget is not in RL. only here. the easternmost end of the west."
Mineral pokes Okmo.
Okmo says, "Our set early, and they hadn't gotten their cosutems fully on yet."
You say, "i is real life..."
Mineral pokes Okmo.
Okmo says, "coming on. i do not love trifle."
poke okmo
Vortex pokes Okmo.
Okmo says, "Mario jumped out and took my dick off."
Mineral says, "I can do this for hours.  It's sick."
Mineral pokes Okmo.
Okmo says, "Rock...as in Floyd , the Stones, Lennon, ELO, ETC... ELO, oh they had a gloomy navel in his fuselage."
You say, "you're not the only one"
You say, "this is _it_, man, this is where we begin. can you believe?"
Mineral says, "I believe, bro..."
You say, "Fuck."
Mineral pokes Okmo.
Okmo says, "the Protestants! one for the dark gods. they like a voodoo doll to help you in your priestess bit?"
Mineral exclaims, "WOOO!"
You say, "You are _beautiful!_"
You say, "What are you reading?"
Mineral says, "IRL?  Padgett's Berrigan memoir, shakespeare, random junk..."
You say, "Can we make a movie of this sometime, when I'm in Santa Cruz next month?"
You say, "shakespeare the great:  Billy R?"
Mineral asks, "For sure.  How?"
You say, "Marty McCutheon digitally videoing a little Okmo session with you & whoever else?”
I don't understand that.
Mineral says, "Love it."
Mineral pokes Okmo.
Okmo says, "the road!! Anywhere from jesus Jones to country to rock to rap.. mmm...I like k.d.lang...she has a low sound called lava. 'get a lantern' is my fantasy. god. i should have Jury Duty at 8:30 in the middle of its sentences * my * C code. Man.. Hey! is there anyway to list currently online wizards withough @who.. ? @wizards @wizards Oh. DUHH :) what? does Anyone do verb programming?"
You say, "yeah. bass for oyur face"
You say, "love misspellings"
You say, "OYUR"
Mineral says, "Oyur = your + our."
You say, "smthnglktht"
Mineral pokes Okmo.
Okmo says, "here to Cody Wyoming, the code of the old-time newsboys. the waves high, the waves ripple across the bay in a shimmering line. Everyone may access the techniques of ecstasy. only slight lag time.. Let me know where you are, Odin, when you reoccur. i love a good bar...let me know where you are jew!"
poke okmo
Vortex pokes Okmo.
Okmo says, "shameful birthdays fade in the spring, the young god dies and my dad was gay."
You say, "went up to huge public pool in park. weird scene!"
You say, "i hate cars."
Mineral says, "Mmm. I got mega sunburn at public beach last wkend."
Mineral says, "peeling."
You say, "donde?"
Mineral says, "Long Beach.  Western LI."
You say, "my pharmaceuticals with mineral. can see it now..."
You say, "that movie we saw?"
Mineral laffs.  "Huh?"
Mineral gets it now   :)
You say, "i quit non-digital poetry"
You say, "not even gonna write it anymore"
Mineral can't help writing it sometimes tho...
You say, "cause this is a conversation, or moments, & barely counts as text"
Mineral mmms.
You say, "but im glad people will write."
Mineral pokes Okmo.
Okmo says, "the happy Jews at the easternmost end. Now i like to like trifle."
You say, "relics they shall be (though all eventually relics)"
poke okmo
Vortex pokes Okmo.
Okmo says, "forget them Oh ,you whouldnt want to know what i belive in is 'your god'?"
Mineral forgets them Oh.
emote forgets them Oh
Vortex forgets them Oh
You say, "high fructose corn syrup tastes terrible"
Mineral pokes Okmo.
Okmo says, "[Kuku] wouldn't know It if It jumped out and took the code..."
You say, "sometimes..."
Mineral can bet it does...
You say, "man the moos are so much better than hypertext..."
Mineral has been an irrecoverable MOOjunkie for months now...
You say, "it's funny, last time i was frequenting lM you weren't around..."
You say, "i'm mad at myself for not dissing on landow's book a little more in"
Mineral grins.  Must have been at VERY odd hours...
You say, "ENG 725Q..."
You say, "VERY ODD TIMES ALWAYS"
You say, "VOTA!"
Mineral says, "VOTA"
emote slouches
Vortex slouches
emote thinks about going to play some chromatic scales
Vortex thinks about going to play some chromatic scales
Mineral nods.  Gotta get outa this office place.
You say, "lemonade finally to LA 8/6. Talk about Vortex..."
Mineral grins.
You say, "OK. We'll do this anon..."
You say, "more anon (& 0n)"
Mineral gassho
emote gassho
@quit
Vortex gassho
*** Disconnected ***
Connection closed by foreign host.




*




telnet lambda.parc.xerox.com 8888
connect vortex omaly
*** Connected ***
Gam-Bit's
The morning sun is beating lightly on you. Ral and Guthay are beatiful sight this morning.
You see Vortex's Safe and Dragoon Rapier here.
Gam-Bit (asleep) is here.
Last connected Sat Jul 10 16:23:01 1993 PDT from thor.albany.edu
There's a new edition of the newspaper.  Type 'news' to see it.
There is new activity on the following lists:
    *smut (#51585)                       624 new messages
whereis mineral
Quaalude (#50669) is in The Idea of Switzerland (#53048).
@go #53048
The Idea of Switzerland
Quaalude (asleep) is here.
poke okmo
Vortex pokes Okmo.
Okmo says, "lie fallow, as do I. you don't need permission for anything. there is write a note to them though."
poke okmo
Vortex pokes Okmo.
Okmo says, "bringing tears to my eyes oooo...cham..thanks sooooo much.. Coach types with eight fingers my button between the k and the Jews Bye All this is bullshit!...How booooooring!"
poke okmo
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
                                  NOTICE
    LambdaMOO is now being used for a sociological research project being conducted by Marilyn Carter (aka Sotto) and Pavel Curtis (aka Lambda, aka Haakon) at the Xerox Palo Alto Research Center.  In particular, the pseudo-player `Scribe' is a recording device, making a log of all public actions taken in its presence.


    For more information, see the first message on the *Research mailing list; type `help mail' for information on how to read mail.
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
Vortex pokes Okmo.
Okmo says, "you give me, can you give me Okmo?"




*




whereis Plaid_guest
Plaid_Guest (#32861)      The Idea of Switzerland (#53048)
@go #53048
The Idea of Switzerland
Plaid_Guest and Jehu (asleep) are here.
You say, "heyhey"
Plaid_Guest says, "Hello, Guest"
You say, "'lo...the body making a house..."
Plaid_Guest says, "Jehu or Yahoo or whatever his name is, complained about this keyboard and disconnected."
You say, "yeah, he's working on it..."
Plaid_Guest says, "OH"
home
You say, "Oh. Back soon..."
You click your heels three times.
The Coat Closet
@quit
PIZZA PIZZA!
*** Disconnected ***










thor% telnet lambda.xerox.com 8888
Trying 192.216.54.2...
Connected to lambda.xerox.com.


The lag is approximately 5 seconds; there are 163 connected.
connect mineral zavol
*** Connected ***
The Idea of Switzerland
There is new activity on the following lists:
    *Literature (#50893)                 9 new messages
    *Music (#37708)                      18 new messages
    *Social-Issues (#7233)               430 new messages
    *chatter (#16543)                    138 new messages
    *News (#123)                         28 new messages
    *Club-SexFiends (#52075)             35 new messages
    *Refrigerator (#6443)                28 new messages
    *boot-log (#60424)                   126 new messages
    *Boot-Discussion (#27357)            10 new messages
    *Dispute:Spatula.vs.Spatu1a (#31235) 30 new messages
    *Therapy-Group (#55258)              3 new messages
    *Club-Dred (#52303)                  4 new messages
    *Features (#42343)                   104 new messages
    *Technology-Today (#7667)            49 new messages
You say, “Ah...that's better...”
@go living
There's no such place known.
@go #17
The Living Room
Infrared_Guest, Eclipse (me without clothes, well a nation turns its back and gags), Bacchus, Blue_Guest, Technicolor_Guest, Housemom, Copper_Guest, and Rory are here.
Rory waves.
Blue_Guest says, "Present for the DIU!"
Bacchus looks you over.
Eclipse fades into insubstantiality, leaving Mrs.Sick behind, looking slightly bewildered.
Technicolor_Guest looks at rory....waves to him
You say, "DIU ROLL CALL"
Rory waves to Technicolor_Guest.
Cygrizus teleports Cobalt out.
Blue_Guest says, "What's that, Jehu?"
Housemom teleports out.
Plaid_Guest comes out of the closet (so to speak...).
Plaid_Guest exits to the north.
Copper_Guest says, ""AH. great. let's go to the idea of switzerland --#..."
home
Jehu Bleah.
Technicolor_Guest exits to the north.
Rory peers suspiciously at the lag.
Anchor falls to the surface as the USS Caine docks.
Teal_Guest comes out of the closet (so to speak...).
You click your heels three times.
The Idea of Switzerland
You're already home!
look here
Black wings, beating and whispering, bring you the thoughts of Macha.
She pages, "oh .... yeah ..."
The Idea of Switzerland
@audit
Objects owned by Jehu (from #0 to #88125):
 31K #50669 Jehu
  3K #53048 The Idea of Switzerland
716b  #6934 silver pillbox
  2K #54614 Upper Silurian Seafloor D
  4K #16143 pills
338b #51112 Steel-tipped bamboo cane
454b #49735 the establishment's own V
351b #48524 dull green china teacup
328b #60808 Sexy backup singers
-- 9 objects.  Total bytes: 43,530.------------------------------------


Anchor falls to the surface as the USS Caine docks.
morph emily
Morph "Jehu" saved.
Jehu becomes Emily. Just like that.
Copper_Guest teleports in.
Anchor is surrounded by some fog...when it clears, he is gone.
Copper_Guest looks you over.
Blue_Guest teleports in.
(From outside history) Macha smirks ... you seem ... umm ... preoccupied, dahlink ... please carry on ...
Copper_Guest says, "hello emily, sweet sweet emily"
Emily [to Blue_Guest]: Welcome.
Copper_Guest teleports out.
Blue_Guest says, "Servusz! Familiar greeting in Hungarian."
You say, "Pardon my earlier confusion.  I'm using an unfamiliar host..."
Blue_Guest says, "hmmm..."
You say, "Vax is icky..."
look me
Emily
Faint scent of lavender and civet.  Sloe-eyed stare from behind mahogany-brown bangs.  Lush, full lips; the skin almost unnaturally white.  Her expression is langorous, indifferent.
Emily's ponytail is tied back with a pale blue grosgrain ribbon.  She wears a white straw boater, cotton blouse with a red and yellow rep tie, a long white pleated linen skirt, and black patent leather pumps.  Embroidered on the upper left hand pocket of her navy blue blazer is an heraldic shield (field argent, bend sinister in sable) beneath a crest of a goat's head inscribed in a five-pointed star.
Emily is wearing something utterly boring.
She is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 silver pillbox                   the establishment's own Vino del Moro
 Steel-tipped bamboo cane
Blue_Guest says, "Icky as an unventilated office in midtown."
page Macha I'm completely weirded out by this host...
Blue_Guest teleports out.
Copper_Guest teleports in.
(From outside history) Macha is getting befuddled...
Copper_Guest teleports out.
page Macha Nemmind me.  Life is a strange thing.
look
The Idea of Switzerland
She pages, "tell me something skin tinglingly thrilling ..."
page Macha pangolins have rows of horny scales but no teeth.
Macha has received your page.
@crowd tub
The Hot Tub(#388)
---------------------------
Name           Sex    Idle
-------------- ------ ----
Scathach*      female  6m
Fizban*        neuter off
Lynx           female 15s
daniella       female  3s
Evelyn         female 39s
Lu_Kang        male    2m
Hoot           male    1m
Rory           male   19s
benny_boy      male    9s
Atlantis_Prime male    1m
Electra        female 11s
The_Chairman   male   20s
-------------- ------ ----


She pages, "you lose ... that doesn't even come close ... sorry ... try again next year ..."
page Macha I wait penelope-like for herself...
You sense that Ebony_Guest is looking for you in The Living Room.
You sense that Ebony_Guest is looking for you in The Entrance Hall.
It pages, "with giving examples of how we sample"
(From outside history) Macha smiles...wonders how the weaving's going...
page Macha giving up & staying put...
Cyan_Guest teleports in.
Ebony_Guest teleports in.
Emily [to Cyan_Guest]: Hello.
booga ebony
You *HUG* Ebony_Guest!
Cyan_Guest says, "Hello.  Where is this place?"
You say, "It is the Idea of Switzerland."
Ebony_Guest says, "Thanks i needed that""
@crowd #17
The Living Room(#17)
------------------------
Name        Sex    Idle
----------- ------ ----
Fortuna     female 57s
Michael     male    2s
Who?        male    8s
jacky       female 36s
Comma       male   19s
Frank*      Spivak 17s
KeithC      male    3s
Variant     male    9s
Umber       neuter 20s
Ice-Woman   female 13s
Panthera    neuter  3s
Abbatoir    male   17s
Lord_Keldon male   12s
----------- ------ ----
Cyan_Guest says, "I see.  well, well"
Cyan_Guest looks you over.
You ask, "Well, indeed.  Are you a DIU person?"
Ebony_Guest says, ""I saw a clock made out of flowers in Switzerland""
You say, "Neato."
Cyan_Guest says, "DIU?  I guess not"
Ebony_Guest says, "I am""
Emily [to Cyan_Guest]: Well, you needn't feel bad!  Some of my best friends aren't either.
morph burl
Ebony_Guest says, "This is where were convening? No?""
Morph "Emily" saved.
Emily becomes Burl_Ives. Just like that.
Burl_Ives [to Ebony_Guest]: Yes.
Cyan_Guest says, "What's DIU?"
Ebony_Guest says, "Wow, froggy went a courtin""
Burl_Ives [to Cyan_Guest]: An electronic publication.
Ebony_Guest says, "A Desciber of an Imaginary University""
Burl_Ives [to Ebony_Guest]: Look at me!
Ebony_Guest says, "Er--univercity""
Cyan_Guest looks you over.
Ebony_Guest lookat burl
Ebony_Guest looks you over.
Cyan_Guest rotfl
Copper_Guest teleports in.
Cyan_Guest says, "How can I get a copy of your publication?"
You *HUG* Copper_Guest!
Ebony_Guest says, "Burl--are you just glad to see me?""
Burl_Ives [to Cyan_Guest]: Tell copper_guest you e-mail address
Copper_Guest says, "heyah Burl!"
Copper_Guest says, "cyan: send email to cf2785@albnyvms.bitnet"
Cyan_Guest says, "Thanks a lot.  Bye"
Cyan_Guest goes home.
Copper_Guest looks you over.
Ebony_Guest says, "Burl "So--is it just us--the inner sanctum here?""
Copper_Guest says, "I'm goin' back to the living room 4 a minute"
Burl_Ives [to Ebony_Guest]: No, Copper is still here...
Copper_Guest teleports out.
Ebony_Guest says, """No--I meant that --we three--"
Ebony_Guest says, "Has anyone else from DIU logged on?"
Burl_Ives [to Ebony_Guest]: Just that Blue Hungarian person, and Don Byrd briefly...
Burl_Ives . o O ( Hungarian... )
Test teleports in.
look test
Test
Test is a curvy, leggy blond who is looking at you intensely, You don't notice her because she is doing it on the sly, out of the corner of her eye. She studies you quietly - she likes to study people - she likes to draw the faces of people - and the faces she likes she fantasizes about - maybe you could be next...or maybe not.   Test should probably read `help clothing'.  Test should type `@append me is ....'
She is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 Message Board for Test!
Ebony_Guest says, "Hmmmnice place you have here--you did all the decorating yourself?"
Burl_Ives [to Test]: Hello.
Test says, "Hello - can a tired college student join u?"
Ebony_Guest says, "Hello, Test""
Burl_Ives [to Ebony_Guest]: I did.  Look at the shrine.
Test is reading the desc.
Burl_Ives [--test]: Of course.
Ebony_Guest looks impressed
Copper_Guest teleports in.
Ebony_Guest wipes the steam off her monacle
Test says, "ehem..what's a Bauhaus sofa?"
Ebony_Guest says, "And i thought trilobites were extinct""
Burl_Ives [to Test]: Gray.  Functional.  Nice.
Ebony_Guest says, "functional--and black--prolly""
Burl_Ives loooooves trilobites.
Copper_Guest says, "yeah--& where's the dope?"
Ebony_Guest says, "oh--sorry--gray--right""
@move #16143 to copper
You teleport pills.
Ebony_Guest says, "They'tre--tres tres--""
Copper_Guest swallows the pills. You notice its pupils start to dilate.
Test says, "would you be able to have spicy trilobites?"
Ebony_Guest holds out her empty hand
Ebony_Guest swallows
Burl_Ives [to Test]: Gee.  I wonder how they'd taste...
Ebony_Guest washes thenm down with lemonade
Burl_Ives [to Ebony_Guest]: type "swallow pills."
Test says, "not as good as Maryland crabs I bet ya..."
Copper_Guest says, "gimme some of that lemonade"
Ebony_Guest swallows the pills. You notice its pupils start to dilate.
Burl_Ives [to Ebony_Guest]: They're real.  You don't have to emote them.
Copper_Guest says, "back in a minnit..."
Ebony_Guest says, "Wow"
Copper_Guest teleports out.
Ebony_Guest says, "Placebos""
Burl_Ives [to Ebony_Guest]: Just wait.
Test says, "in the right circumstances, they do the job, and well."
Ebony_Guest says, "oh--delayed effects""
Test says, "is Ebony flushing yet?"
Ebony_Guest says, "What's up Dred?"
look dred
I see no "dred" here.
Ebony_Guest says, "What do i do with these black wings?"
Test says, "is Ebony steaming from the ears yet?"
Burl_Ives [to Test]: Apparently so...
Test says, "is ebony on a niacin trip?"
You say, "Brb..."
Test looks you over.
Ebony_Guest says, "I've heard of the nostrils of destiny..."
Ebony_Guest says, "Is that a labris"
Ebony_Guest says, "i was born in Iowa"
Copper_Guest teleports in.
Bogey teleports in.
Bogey teleports out.
You sense that Ultraviolet_Guest is looking for you in The Idea of Switzerland.
The Idea of Switzerland
Ebony_Guest and Ultraviolet_Guest are here.
Ebony_Guest says, "Hello Ultraviolet""
Ultraviolet_Guest says, "Hi"
You ask, "Do we know you, Ultra?"
Ultraviolet_Guest says, "well, I don't know"
Ebony_Guest says, "r u a DIU-er?""
Ultraviolet_Guest says, "I mean, do you?"
You ask, "Do you read DIU?"
Ultraviolet_Guest says, "Oh, DIU... Does that have something to do with drunken driving?"
You scrutinize Ultraviolet_Guest.
Ebony_Guest says, "Uh, guess no it-""
Lactose pages, "oooo, I like you"
Ebony_Guest says, "Not""
Burl_Ives [to Ultraviolet_Guest]: Do you live in Mexico, Maine, or Minnesota?
Ebony_Guest says, "Kansas, Kentucky or Kananda?""
Ultraviolet_Guest says, "Or it might have to do with poetry?"
Copper_Guest teleports in.
Ebony_Guest says, "ah--now your burning hot""
Copper_Guest says, "burning..."
Burl_Ives [to Ultraviolet_Guest]: Exactly.  Does Robert Herrick make you want to jiggle your ribands?
Ebony_Guest says, "Hi copper head""
Copper_Guest says, "...& a lootin'"
Ultraviolet_Guest says, "Poetry, yes, Edgar Lee Masters, and all of that"
Copper_Guest says, "yeah, ultra...right on...kinky reggae"
You say, "feh."
Copper_Guest says, "do not impersonate who?"
Ultraviolet_Guest says, "Now Sam McGee was from Tennessee (just to answer your rude questions)"
Copper_Guest says, "possibility + person = commodity"
Copper_Guest says, "Bloodclot!"
Ultraviolet_Guest says, "And Of course Wallace Stevens put a jar in tennessee, with extraoridnary results"
Copper_Guest says, "ownership of the sun testifies."
You say, "Streetlights flicker on the Place Pigalle..."
Ebony_Guest says, "But i could have SWORN the man was dead!""
Copper_Guest says, "there's a flight that kind of hungers over the snow"
You say, "He caught bugs with it."
Copper_Guest says, "is it said to be the capsules silence carmine?"
@listmorphs
You define the following morphs: Vengeance, Byzantine, Johnny_Thunders, Ulrich, Robert_Urich, Specimen, Caravaggio, Benedetta, Minaakon, JB, Quaalude, Minerale, Jehu, Sabbath, Emily, Twinkle, Pursewarden, Burl_Ives, Asphyksia, Viss, and Mineral.
The following morph names are not in your aliases: Viss.
To add an alias, type `@addalias <alias> to me'.
You have the following aliases that are not morphs: Urich, Byz, Cary, Lude, Ven, Vitamin, Purse, and Burl.
Ultraviolet_Guest says, "potatoes are more afflication than asteroids"
Ebony_Guest says, "the moon found Endymion at home where he slept""
Copper_Guest says, "inseperable swamps - - - - brilliant vines . . ."
Morph "Burl_Ives" saved.
Burl_Ives becomes Asphyksia. Just like that.
look me
Asphyksia
You see a woman of matchless beauty surrounded by a nimbus of clear light. Her blonde tresses form a halo around her blue-eyed elven face. She is dressed in shimmering diaphonous vestments and appears to hover a few inches above the floor.
Asphyksia is choking on a veal shank, the bone-end of which protrudes from her rose-petal lips.  Her face has taken on a rich blue color, and her extremities shake convulsively.
Asphyksia is wearing something utterly boring.
She is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 silver pillbox                   the establishment's own Vino del Moro
 Steel-tipped bamboo cane
Ebony_Guest looks you over.
@clothes
Clothing is now disabled.
Ultraviolet_Guest says, "Pretty wired, er weird, er wyrde; I mean funny"
You say, "Wired sisters."
Copper_Guest says, ""yeah, serious humour. of the alexander pope vein..."
Ebony_Guest says, "Himlick anyone--er spelling anyone???""
@go living
The Living Room
Dr._Periatis teleports Plaid_Guest out.
Ralstan materializes out of thin air.
Immacolata says, "Rats..."
Hoot thanks Dr._Periatis.
Lactose [to Dr._Periatis]: awww! u ruined our fun!
Immacolata exclaims, "Doggone it, Doc!"
Ralstan says, "Hello all"
Plaid_Guest teleports in.
Variant [to Immacolata]: Oh, you'll probably get another chance.
Lactose bows gracefully to Ralstan Blackhand.
FireRose [to Dr._Periatis]:
Nightbreed [to Immacolata]: Mind what?
Plaid_Guest says, "That's not going to work"
Obvious [to Plaid_Guest]: dont be so modest. your LOTS o folks' worse nightmare.
Immacolata makes an odd motion with her black leather gloves, revealing four, long, black blades that had been concealed until now.
With a quick slashing motion Immacolata rakes bloody gouges across Plaid_Guest's body with the knives.  The blades go deep.  Ouch!
You look away, but can hear Immacolata wiping the blades off and resetting them.
Cockatoo squawks, "Copper Guest, how do i get bAck to the idea?""
Lactose [to Immacolata]: sic em!
Home
The Idea of Switzerland
Ultraviolet_Guest, Copper_Guest, and Ebony_Guest are here.
Copper_Guest says, "but nothing's natural anymore unless it's in a natural (nature?) area?"
You say, "Harpamarpa prarpaparpa arpamarpararpaparpamarpar"
You say, "Oops."
Ultraviolet_Guest says, "Harpamarpa prarpaparpa arpamarpararpaparpamarpar...
You say, “That's what I think too"
Ebony_Guest says, "desiGNated""
Copper_Guest says, "weird how berrigan & kelly despise(d) nature too..."
Ultraviolet_Guest says, "Have you noticed those signs along the high way  "
Copper_Guest says, "right...weird Guys.."
Ultraviolet_Guest says, "that is high way that say, 'Natural Area"
You say, "As you lope across the bosky dells saying "Go fuck yourselves, you motherfuckers...""
Copper_Guest says, "yeah, signs along 90 EAST"
Copper_Guest says, "very biZZ are"
Ebony_Guest says, "I think EVERYTHING should be labled by bureacrats""
Ultraviolet_Guest says, "I would be labeled 'the dancing gnu"
Ebony_Guest says, "Tree""
Ebony_Guest says, "DISCARDED bubble gum""
Copper_Guest says, "the sky is always bleak in these pictures..."
Copper_Guest says, "i'll be back in a minute..."
Copper_Guest teleports out.
Ultraviolet_Guest says, "put never bleaker than in Niskayuna"
@peruse lactose
A Cycle Slut from Hell. She wishes you were a beer.
 She is in The Living Room (#17) with a crowd.
Contents:
 Spray Cage (#26559)                     NastyBoots (#73641)
 tight fitting rubber swimsuit (#67074)  FreshMeat (#51030)
 MugPaddle (#2108)                       Fun (#62395)
 amyl nitrate (#68839)
 Voodoo Doll resembling Vida_Blue (#76331)
Ultraviolet_Guest says, "I can never type anything right. It makes me look so smart. Like avant-garde"
@morph jehu
@clothing
@clothes
Morph "Asphyksia" saved.
Asphyksia becomes Jehu. Just like that.
The Idea of Switzerland
Ebony_Guest is here.
Ebony_Guest teleports out.
Ebony_Guest teleports in.
Ebony_Guest looks you over.
Jehu [to Ebony_Guest]: Hello there.
Ebony_Guest says, "Hi""
Ebony_Guest says, "I'm looking at you--I'm a slow reader""
Ebony_Guest says, "My--my--""
Jehu hehs.
look me
Jehu
Crooked smile; white, even teeth except for one gleaming gold
canine.  He is tall, sinewy, broad-shouldered, his face tan and a
little creased around deepset sky-blue eyes.  His bronze-colored
collar-length hair has been streaked white-blonde by the sun.
Crudely tattooed in blue ink across the knuckles of his left hand are
the letters O-B-E-Y; the right-hand knuckles spell out DEFY in neat
black capitals.
His scent is bay rum, brimstone, Indian paintbrush.
Jehu wears a black Dobbs hat tilted back on his head, a white cotton shirt with a black string tie, black pleated trousers, and snakeskin boots. From the pocket of his long frock coat hangs a watch chain hung with charms--a little steel crucifix, magpie feathers, a Natchez serpent carved in pipestone.
He is awake and looks alert.
Carrying:
 silver pillbox                   the establishment's own Vino del Moro
 Steel-tipped bamboo cane
Ebony_Guest says, "You should have a pet talking parrot""
Ebony_Guest says, "that sits on yr shoulder""
You say, "Mmm..."
Ebony_Guest says, "with a purely obscene vocanbulayry""
Ebony_Guest says, "vocabulary""
Jehu hees.
Jehu [to Ebony_Guest]: We're gonna ditch this.  Will call in a few.
You *HUG* Ebony_Guest!
You say, "Bye."
@quit
Ebony_Guest says, "Bye bye--thanx for yr hospitality""
*** Disconnected ***


________________
G L O S S A R Y
of terms used


(in process)


ascii
@audit
baud
connect, co
create
@crowd
@describe
@dig
eat
emote
enter
examine, @examine
fg
gassho
go, @go
help
home
inventory
LambdaMOO
leave
Logon
Log
LOL
look
@mail
MediaMOO
MOO
morph
@move
MUD
@next
news
open
out
page
@quit
read, @read
request
@send
@sethome
@subscribe
take
teleport
telnet
thor%:                        name of server at University at Albany—SUNY
whereis
whisper
whois
@with
ZenMOO


________________
D I S C L A I M E R


Though this text is not made for commercial purposes, it may be bought and sold.  In the event that profit is ever made, I will offer equal royalties to anyone involved in any of these MOO communities who contacts me requesting such.  I wish to thank everyone who participated in these MOO groups, and those who administrated them, in advance, for their efforts and energy therein.


I wish to copyright the present document—the entirety of this book—as a unique text.  However, I do not claim to copyright to any of the text that actually appears in the book; that would belong to the people who said and who programmed what appears here.  Grateful for everyone’s words and visions, I apologize to anyone whose presence in Whereis Mineral is undesired.


________________
APPENDIX:  @who command / list of players / The true authors of this text! / original session filename (date of log) preceeds each list of names.


115


(I)


Player name               Connected    Idle time    Location
-----------               ---------    ---------    --------
Vortex (#50457)           10 minutes   0 seconds    The Living Room
Zippy (#23517)            13 minutes   0 seconds    Event Lab (#23917)
Maelstorm (#2797)         an hour      0 seconds    MacDojo
Mr.Z (#50381)             3 hours      0 seconds    Dusty Foyer
Booga (#634)              6 hours      2 seconds    MacDojo
Bewitch (#50272)          4 minutes    3 seconds    Mousike
Korvac (#34696)           2 hours      3 seconds    The Living Room
Euphistopheles (#50222)   5 hours      3 seconds    Breezy's
Aubie (#50435)            49 minutes   4 seconds    Tiger's Den
Moriah (#50459)           4 hours      5 seconds    Breezy's
Teal_Guest (#5789)        a minute     6 seconds    The Coat Closet [mailing]
Melvin (#27564)           10 seconds   10 seconds   ** Nowhere ** (#-1)
Roo (#50040)              an hour      10 seconds   Secluded grove
Dicky (#52630)            35 seconds   16 seconds   Da-Hideaway
Monet (#53311)            an hour      16 seconds   Dusty Foyer
Guest (#5704)             24 minutes   17 seconds   Tiger's Den
FrontierMOO (#49897)      a day        18 seconds   The Relay Room
Frodo (#48417)            a minute     19 seconds   The Gate Entrance to Willy
CardiffMOO (#49761)       7 hours      19 seconds   The Relay Room
duck (#53312)             6 minutes    22 seconds   The Deck
legba (#26603)            23 minutes   22 seconds   Event Lab (#23917)
Mandarb (#51975)          33 minutes   22 seconds   Makeshift Cave [resting]
j.w.catch (#50390)        44 minutes   24 seconds   Ned's atomic dustbin
Peter_Lake (#28858)       31 seconds   29 seconds   The Cloud Wall
Frobno (#49397)           6 minutes    34 seconds   Candleglow
Magenta_Guest (#5726)     a minute     35 seconds   The Gate Entrance to Willy
Tim (#50882)              36 minutes   35 seconds   Benedict's room
Buckie (#32221)           21 minutes   43 seconds   Bovine Illuminati Library
Miles (#50636)            6 minutes    47 seconds   Oak Room
PB (#50224)               an hour      49 seconds   Secluded grove
Sal (#50408)              9 minutes    50 seconds   LambdaMOO Museum (Misc. Obj
CameraEye (#49915)        a minute     a minute     Mousike
Fizban (#50357)           an hour      a minute     The Garden
Shandril (#45117)         2 hours      a minute     Shan's alcove
Stinglai (#28160)         2 hours      a minute     Breezy's
Achilles (#50295)         28 minutes   a minute     Evermore
Sadric (#46622)           2 hours      2 minutes    The Living Room
VirtualGirl (#53113)      38 minutes   2 minutes    The Garden
JaysHouseMOO (#52536)     6 hours      2 minutes    Orbiting LambdaMOO
Quinn (#19845)            3 hours      8 minutes    Makeshift Cave
Bloaf (#15550)            10 minutes   10 minutes   The Living Room
Mark (#53235)             an hour      12 minutes   Pahked Cah
Cessna (#29060)           2 hours      25 minutes   Cessna's Construction Room
Count (#35076)            41 minutes   29 minutes   Abandoned Chapel
Murf (#26708)             32 minutes   31 minutes   Murf's Madhouse
Sick (#41057)             an hour      32 minutes   The Sick Room
Grump (#122)              44 minutes   38 minutes   Yellow room
Minstrel (#32005)         an hour      46 minutes   Desire
JoeFeedback (#2612)       an hour      an hour      Joe Feedback's Room
Seal (#31126)             an hour      an hour      Future Love Paradise
Haakon (#2)               a day        3 hours      Lambda's Den
marcie (#53085)           a day        6 hours      marcie's
Cloister (#34107)         9 hours      7 hours      Red Dwarf
Robbie (#26941)           a day        23 hours     Robbie's room


Total: 54 players, 39 of whom have been active recently.


(II)


Player name               Connected    Idle time    Location
-----------               ---------    ---------    --------
ajia (#41630)             11 minutes   0 seconds    Ajia's teahouse
Vortex (#50457)           24 minutes   0 seconds    The Living Room
legba (#26603)            37 minutes   0 seconds    Event Lab (#23917)
Shandril (#45117)         2 hours      0 seconds    Squeezy Tunnel
Cable (#50066)            12 minutes   a second     Graymalkin (sitting on an a
Korvac (#34696)           2 hours      a second     The Living Room
JaysHouseMOO (#52536)     7 hours      2 seconds    Orbiting LambdaMOO
Dr.Fate (#23809)          11 minutes   4 seconds    The Living Room
Mark (#53235)             an hour      4 seconds    Pahked Cah
Stinglai (#28160)         2 hours      4 seconds    Breezy's [mailing]
Quinn (#19845)            6 minutes    7 seconds    Makeshift Cave
Jens-hringr (#50266)      10 minutes   7 seconds    Muddy Path
Sal (#50408)              23 minutes   8 seconds    Bob's Underground
Guest (#5704)             38 minutes   8 seconds    Evermore
Magenta_Guest (#5726)     15 minutes   9 seconds    WonkaTin (Oompa Loompa's Se
Frodo (#48417)            16 minutes   9 seconds    WonkaTin (Oompa Loompa's Se
Euphistopheles (#50222)   6 hours      9 seconds    Breezy's
PB (#50224)               an hour      13 seconds   Secluded grove
Mandarb (#51975)          47 minutes   15 seconds   Makeshift Cave [resting]
Fizban (#50357)           an hour      15 seconds   The Garden
Aubie (#50435)            an hour      17 seconds   Cabin
Sparrowhawk (#49273)      31 seconds   21 seconds   The House of Pancakes
CardiffMOO (#49761)       8 hours      27 seconds   The Relay Room
FrontierMOO (#49897)      a day        27 seconds   The Relay Room
Peter_Lake (#28858)       14 minutes   32 seconds   Breezy's
VirtualGirl (#53113)      52 minutes   32 seconds   The Garden
Roo (#50040)              an hour      35 seconds   Secluded grove
Bewitch (#50272)          18 minutes   37 seconds   Mousike
Achilles (#50295)         42 minutes   38 seconds   Evermore
Jezebel (#41191)          4 minutes    42 seconds   The Living Room
duck (#53312)             20 minutes   42 seconds   The Deck
Monet (#53311)            2 hours      42 seconds   Dusty Foyer
Moriah (#50459)           4 hours      42 seconds   Breezy's [editing verbs]
Mr.Z (#50381)             3 hours      a minute     Dusty Foyer
CyberFox (#50053)         7 minutes    a minute     Artemis
Miles (#50636)            21 minutes   a minute     Oak Room [editing verbs]
Zippy (#23517)            27 minutes   a minute     Event Lab (#23917)
Sadric (#46622)           2 hours      2 minutes    The Living Room
Haakon (#2)               a day        4 minutes    Lambda's Den
Booga (#634)              6 hours      4 minutes    MacDojo
Bloaf (#15550)            24 minutes   7 minutes    Bloaf's Room
CameraEye (#49915)        16 minutes   11 minutes   Mousike
Dicky (#52630)            14 minutes   14 minutes   Da-Hideaway
Cessna (#29060)           2 hours      39 minutes   Cessna's Construction Room
Count (#35076)            55 minutes   44 minutes   Abandoned Chapel
Murf (#26708)             46 minutes   45 minutes   Murf's Madhouse
Sick (#41057)             an hour      46 minutes   The Sick Room
Minstrel (#32005)         an hour      an hour      Desire
JoeFeedback (#2612)       an hour      an hour      Joe Feedback's Room
Seal (#31126)             2 hours      an hour      Future Love Paradise
marcie (#53085)           a day        6 hours      marcie's
Cloister (#34107)         9 hours      7 hours      Red Dwarf
Robbie (#26941)           a day        a day        Robbie's room


Total: 53 players, 40 of whom have been active recently.


(III)


Player name               Connected    Idle time    Location
-----------               ---------    ---------    --------
Vortex (#50457)           37 minutes   0 seconds    The Living Room [mailing]
Shandril (#45117)         2 hours      0 seconds    Makeshift Cave [resting]
JaysHouseMOO (#52536)     7 hours      a second     Orbiting LambdaMOO
ajia (#41630)             23 minutes   2 seconds    Ajia's teahouse
PB (#50224)               an hour      3 seconds    Secluded grove
Dr.Fate (#23809)          24 minutes   6 seconds    The Living Room
Magenta_Guest (#5726)     28 minutes   6 seconds    The Pool
Korvac (#34696)           2 hours      6 seconds    The Living Room
Frodo (#48417)            28 minutes   7 seconds    The Pool
legba (#26603)            50 minutes   7 seconds    Event Lab (#23917)
Mr.Z (#50381)             3 hours      7 seconds    Dusty Foyer
Sparrowhawk (#49273)      13 minutes   9 seconds    The House of Pancakes
Zippy (#23517)            40 minutes   9 seconds    Event Lab (#23917)
Mack-the-Knife (#47551)   22 seconds   10 seconds   MacDojo
Mandarb (#51975)          an hour      10 seconds   Makeshift Cave [resting]
Achilles (#50295)         55 minutes   11 seconds   Red_Barchetta's Abode
Mark (#53235)             an hour      13 seconds   Pahked Cah
Euphistopheles (#50222)   6 hours      15 seconds   Breezy's
Jezebel (#41191)          17 minutes   16 seconds   The Living Room
Quinn (#19845)            19 minutes   17 seconds   Makeshift Cave
Fizban (#50357)           an hour      19 seconds   The Garden
Sal (#50408)              36 minutes   22 seconds   Breezy's
Peter_Lake (#28858)       27 minutes   23 seconds   Breezy's
Cable (#50066)            25 minutes   25 seconds   The Living Room
duck (#53312)             33 minutes   26 seconds   The Deck
Miles (#50636)            33 minutes   29 seconds   Oak Room
Roo (#50040)              an hour      30 seconds   Secluded grove
DDDHBILL (#53321)         8 minutes    36 seconds   Da-Hideaway
Aubie (#50435)            an hour      41 seconds   Evermore
VirtualGirl (#53113)      an hour      47 seconds   The Garden
Guest (#5704)             51 minutes   a minute     Evermore
CardiffMOO (#49761)       8 hours      a minute     The Relay Room
FrontierMOO (#49897)      a day        a minute     The Relay Room
Stinglai (#28160)         2 hours      a minute     Breezy's
Grump (#122)              8 minutes    a minute     Yellow room
CyberFox (#50053)         20 minutes   3 minutes    Artemis
JoeFeedback (#2612)       an hour      3 minutes    Joe Feedback's Room
Moriah (#50459)           5 hours      3 minutes    Breezy's [editing verbs]
Storm (#50282)            8 minutes    5 minutes    Waterfall
Chaos (#6853)             10 minutes   9 minutes    Breezy's
Sadric (#46622)           2 hours      15 minutes   The Living Room
Haakon (#2)               a day        17 minutes   Lambda's Den
Bloaf (#15550)            37 minutes   20 minutes   Bloaf's Room
CameraEye (#49915)        28 minutes   24 minutes   Mousike
Cessna (#29060)           2 hours      52 minutes   Cessna's Construction Room
Count (#35076)            an hour      56 minutes   Abandoned Chapel
Murf (#26708)             59 minutes   58 minutes   Murf's Madhouse
Sick (#41057)             an hour      58 minutes   The Sick Room
Minstrel (#32005)         an hour      an hour      Desire
Seal (#31126)             2 hours      an hour      Future Love Paradise
marcie (#53085)           a day        7 hours      marcie's
Cloister (#34107)         9 hours      7 hours      Red Dwarf
Robbie (#26941)           a day        a day        Robbie's room


Total: 53 players, 38 of whom have been active recently.




**


117


Player name                Connected    Idle time    Location
-----------                ---------    ---------    --------
Sal (#50408)               16 minutes   0 seconds    Bob's Underground
Frobno (#49397)            3 hours      0 seconds    Dirt Road [fighting Frobno
Vortex (#50457)            49 minutes   a second     The Living Room
Lazarus (#50624)           11 minutes   2 seconds    Machine Room
Abraxas (#42395)           22 minutes   2 seconds    Bob's Underground
Stellah (#49754)           29 minutes   2 seconds    Brazil
Rasputin (#50254)          43 minutes   2 seconds    Master Bedroom
Foobies (#23371)           38 minutes   4 seconds    Club Dred
Psalty (#50091)            59 minutes   6 seconds    Underwater
Aardvark-V (#50890)        an hour      7 seconds    Prefabricated Bungaloo
Yasmin (#50394)            an hour      7 seconds    Hermitage
Ford_Prefect (#50296)      a minute     9 seconds    Bistromath
Niko (#49866)              52 minutes   9 seconds    Underwater
ajia (#41630)              2 hours      9 seconds    Club Dred
Denis (#43902)             29 minutes   12 seconds   Svelte's NightClub
Moriah (#50459)            2 hours      12 seconds   Breezy's
Greene (#49795)            3 hours      13 seconds   Brazil
Svelte (#50430)            an hour      14 seconds   Svelte's NightClub
Rache (#12499)             an hour      14 seconds   Home
Starsinger (#22691)        2 hours      14 seconds   The Living Room
Zippy (#23517)             3 hours      14 seconds   The Living Room
Ozy (#4783)                2 hours      15 seconds   The Living Room
Praecox (#52694)           34 minutes   16 seconds   Prefabricated Bungaloo
Count (#35076)             7 hours      16 seconds   Eyes' Sleeping Bag
Q (#28058)                 a minute     18 seconds   The Living Room
The_Blue_Wizard (#53117)   14 minutes   18 seconds   The Blue Wizard's Master B
MrEd (#26961)              16 minutes   19 seconds   The Living Room
Dav (#50183)               19 minutes   20 seconds   The Dav's room!!
Bakunin (#3553)            an hour      20 seconds   The Living Room
Eyes (#41859)              13 minutes   24 seconds   Eyes' Sleeping Bag
Tony (#35849)              40 minutes   27 seconds   The Compass Rose
Sylvia (#50287)            an hour      27 seconds   Master Bedroom
CyberFox (#50053)          4 hours      28 seconds   Breezy's
Prattledancer (#23301)     8 minutes    30 seconds   The Living Room
Guest (#5704)              32 minutes   30 seconds   Crnr Mn Strt+Qns Blvrd(Clu
Cable (#50066)             40 minutes   30 seconds   Svelte's NightClub
APHiD (#31783)             46 minutes   30 seconds   APHiD's Office
Euphistopheles (#50222)    an hour      30 seconds   Sanctum_Arcanum
Dred (#49925)              3 hours      30 seconds   Club Dred
PB (#50224)                a minute     36 seconds   The Loft
Smith (#53361)             6 minutes    36 seconds   The Living Room
A_Smile (#46432)           41 minutes   39 seconds   The Dav's room!!
Ivy (#37254)               an hour      39 seconds   Home
Kougar (#13731)            an hour      48 seconds   The Living Room
Yellow_Guest (#5743)       an hour      53 seconds   The Living Room
FrontierMOO (#49897)       3 days       2 minutes    The Relay Room
CyberTec (#50176)          an hour      3 minutes    Breezy's
Val (#50285)               33 minutes   3 minutes    Mountaintop
Grump (#122)               14 minutes   4 minutes    The Living Room
Xorian (#5229)             6 minutes    4 minutes    Xorian's Apartment
Storm (#50282)             34 minutes   6 minutes    Mountaintop
Plaid_Guest (#32861)       21 minutes   14 minutes   The Family Room
Stinglai (#28160)          4 hours      14 minutes   The Coat Closet
Xyphus (#36980)            15 minutes   15 minutes   Xyphus' Copse
Mr.Z (#50381)              2 hours      18 minutes   Mr.Z's Habitat
Fizban (#50357)            an hour      19 minutes   The Coat Closet
marcie (#53085)            5 hours      50 minutes   marcie's
Nick (#49922)              an hour      an hour      Study Room
JaysHouseMOO (#52536)      an hour      an hour      Orbiting LambdaMOO
Cessna (#29060)            4 hours      2 hours      Cessna's Construction Room
Haakon (#2)                3 days       4 hours      Lambda's Den
Cloister (#34107)          2 days       19 hours     Red Dwarf


Total: 62 players, 50 of whom have been active recently.




**


118


Player name                   Connected    Idle time    Location
-----------                   ---------    ---------    --------
Hiro (#53239)                 25 seconds   0 seconds    The Pyre
Greene (#49795)               4 minutes    0 seconds    The Mess
Nectar (#51261)               an hour      0 seconds    The Dav's room!!
Zippy (#23517)                2 hours      0 seconds    The Living Room
Oddstrich (#17247)            4 minutes    a second     Skot's Room
Cooper (#53317)               12 minutes   a second     Aldo
Sylvia (#50287)               17 minutes   a second     Nechaev's_den
Weasel (#24815)               17 minutes   a second     Thieves' Den
Stace (#48442)                an hour      a second     Stace's bedroom
Melody (#52615)               an hour      a second     Remix's Haven
JaysHouseMOO (#52536)         a day        a second     Orbiting LambdaMOO
David (#50163)                an hour      4 seconds    Svelte's NightClub
Dav (#50183)                  8 minutes    5 seconds    The Dav's room!!
LaTraviata (#50413)           17 minutes   6 seconds    The Serail
Nechaev (#53334)              17 minutes   6 seconds    Nechaev's_den
Guest (#5704)                 36 minutes   6 seconds    The Living Room
Junior (#50817)               2 hours      6 seconds    Club Dred (Balcony)
Psalty (#50091)               3 hours      6 seconds    Scrabble Board
little-wind-spirit (#39585)   3 hours      6 seconds    Makeshift Cave [resting
DejahThoris (#32334)          4 hours      6 seconds    Thieves' Den
CyberFox (#50053)           7 hours      6 seconds    Musty Old Book Store
Vortex (#50457)               21 minutes   16 seconds   The Living Room
Svelte (#50430)               an hour      16 seconds   Svelte's NightClub
Neil (#50639)                 3 hours      17 seconds   Remix's Haven
Trystan (#44064)              4 seconds    19 seconds   November Rainbow
Red_Guest (#5707)             16 minutes   19 seconds   The Living Room
Dred (#49925)                 3 hours      19 seconds   Club Dred
Ophelia (#50198)              4 hours      24 seconds   Oak Room
PB (#50224)                   3 hours      25 seconds   Scrabble Board (not pla
Canton (#46738)               8 minutes    26 seconds   Garden
A_Smile (#46432)              3 minutes    28 seconds   The Dav's room!!
Cable (#50066)                20 minutes   30 seconds   Club Dred
Ivy (#37254)                  an hour      30 seconds   Home
Blue_Guest (#5720)            10 minutes   32 seconds   The Powder Room
Guest has disconnected.
Rache (#12499)                an hour      32 seconds   Home
Miles (#50636)                3 hours      32 seconds   Oak Room
Judi (#53411)                 5 minutes    34 seconds   The Coat Closet
Frobno (#49397)               38 minutes   34 seconds   Makeshift Cave [resting
Manchmal (#50503)             2 hours      34 seconds   Stace's bedroom
Korvac (#34696)               6 hours      37 seconds   The Serail
Kougar (#13731)               6 hours      46 seconds   The Living Room
Rasputin (#50254)             7 minutes    53 seconds   Master Bedroom
Val (#50285)                  6 minutes    a minute     Waterfall
Count (#35076)                3 minutes    a minute     Crystal Lake [editing v
Yasmin (#50394)               17 minutes   a minute     The Russian Tea Room
Starsinger (#22691)           48 minutes   a minute     The Living Room
ajia (#41630)                 an hour      a minute     Club Dred
Sick (#41057)                 2 hours      a minute     Club Dred (Men's Room)
Euphistopheles (#50222)       7 hours      a minute     An_Atrium [editing verb
Moriah (#50459)               8 hours      a minute     Musty Old Book Store
Stinglai (#28160)             an hour      2 minutes    The Living Room
CyberTec (#50176)             an hour      4 minutes    Maintenance Bay - Level
Purple_Guest (#5790)          35 minutes   5 minutes    Hell
Pixel (#41953)                an hour      6 minutes    Screen Saver
Hagbard (#36271)              12 hours     21 minutes   The Living Room
marcie (#53085)               a day        56 minutes   marcie's
Jonny (#3920)                 an hour      an hour      Jonny's Home
Cessna (#29060)               2 hours      an hour      Cessna's Construction R
46861 (#46861)                3 hours      an hour      The Living Room
Haakon (#2)                   4 days       2 hours      Lambda's Den
Puff (#1449)                  3 hours      3 hours      Mirror Behind The Bar
Cloister (#34107)             19 hours     7 hours      Red Dwarf


Total: 62 players, 52 of whom have been active recently.




*


MEDIAMOO120


(I)


Player name             Connected    Idle time    Location
-----------             ---------    ---------    --------
Green_Guest (#121)      30 minutes   a second     Library
andru (#570)            2 hours      2 seconds    Ballroom Foyer
Killer (#532)           2 hours      3 seconds    Library
Kid_Gloves (#568)       13 minutes   5 seconds    Men's Dressing Room
Drave (#176)            an hour      5 seconds    Dance Floor
Alan (#151)             2 hours      9 seconds    Dance Floor
Orange_Guest (#344)     20 minutes   10 seconds   Sixth-floor Atrium
Amy (#75)               an hour      12 seconds   Dance Floor
Gray_Guest (#691)       14 minutes   13 seconds   The LEGO Closet
ebob (#207)             30 minutes   15 seconds   Dance Floor
Jave (#199)             an hour      40 seconds   Men's Dressing Room
Michele (#120)          2 hours      45 seconds   Men's Dressing Room
Tom (#300)              19 minutes   54 seconds   Sixth-floor Atrium
Hiro (#353)             27 minutes   a minute     Jeremias' Office
Albert (#119)           an hour      a minute     Dance Floor
Rancher (#299)          3 hours      a minute     E15-404 AHIG
|>oug (#560)            25 minutes   2 minutes    Men's Dressing Room
Christopher (#298)      43 minutes   4 minutes    E15-404 AHIG
Greg (#206)             an hour      4 minutes    Men's Dressing Room
Jeremias (#352)         28 minutes   6 minutes    Men's Dressing Room
Guest (#113)            34 minutes   14 minutes   The Root Lounge
Amber_Guest (#700)      15 minutes   15 minutes   The Root Lounge
Jade_Guest (#701)       38 minutes   18 minutes   The Ballroom
Lenny (#115)            3 hours      21 minutes   Lenny's office
emr (#578)              3 hours      22 minutes   The Ballroom
jaime (#2)              33 minutes   32 minutes   Jaime's capacitor
Blue_Guest (#106)       2 hours      an hour      Dance Floor
Plaid_Guest (#122)      2 hours      2 hours      The Ballroom
Violet_Guest (#184)     2 hours      2 hours      Women's Dressing Room
Grey_Guest (#358)       2 hours      2 hours      Men's Dressing Room
Cerulean_Guest (#488)   3 hours      3 hours      Ballroom Foyer


Total: 31 players, 19 of whom have been active recently.


(II)


Player name             Connected    Idle time    Location
-----------             ---------    ---------    --------
Green_Guest (#121)      46 minutes   0 seconds    The Ballroom
Orange_Guest (#344)     36 minutes   a second     Men's Dressing Room
Teal_Guest (#347)       14 minutes   4 seconds    The Ballroom
Rancher (#299)          16 minutes   4 seconds    E15-404 AHIG
Lenny (#115)            3 hours      4 seconds    Lenny's office
Amy (#75)               2 hours      6 seconds    Dance Floor
|>oug (#560)            41 minutes   9 seconds    Dance Floor
andru (#570)            2 hours      14 seconds   Men's Dressing Room
ebob (#207)             46 minutes   15 seconds   Dance Floor
Kid_Gloves (#568)       29 minutes   16 seconds   Dance Floor
Alan (#151)             2 hours      18 seconds   Dance Floor
Jave (#199)             an hour      21 seconds   E15-404 AHIG
Gray_Guest (#691)       31 minutes   23 seconds   Men's Dressing Room
Christopher (#298)      an hour      23 seconds   E15-404 AHIG
Killer (#532)           2 hours      29 seconds   The Ballroom
Albert (#119)           an hour      a minute     Dance Floor
Tom (#300)              36 minutes   a minute     The Root Lounge
Jeremias (#352)         4 minutes    4 minutes    Jeremias' Office
Michele (#120)          2 hours      9 minutes    The Ballroom
Jade_Guest (#701)       55 minutes   11 minutes   Men's Dressing Room
Drave (#176)            2 hours      14 minutes   Dance Floor
Greg (#206)             2 hours      20 minutes   Men's Dressing Room
Guest (#113)            50 minutes   30 minutes   The Root Lounge
Amber_Guest (#700)      31 minutes   31 minutes   The Root Lounge
emr (#578)              3 hours      39 minutes   The Ballroom
jaime (#2)              49 minutes   48 minutes   Jaime's capacitor
Blue_Guest (#106)       2 hours      an hour      Dance Floor
Plaid_Guest (#122)      2 hours      2 hours      The Ballroom
Violet_Guest (#184)     2 hours      2 hours      Women's Dressing Room
Grey_Guest (#358)       2 hours      2 hours      Men's Dressing Room
Cerulean_Guest (#488)   3 hours      3 hours      Ballroom Foyer


Total: 31 players, 18 of whom have been active recently.


(III)


Player name             Connected    Idle time    Location
-----------             ---------    ---------    --------
Gray_Guest (#691)       47 minutes   a second     Dance Floor
Green_Guest (#121)      an hour      a second     The LEGO Closet
Rancher (#299)          32 minutes   3 seconds    Elevator
Killer (#532)           3 hours      7 seconds    Ballroom Foyer
Amy (#75)               2 hours      8 seconds    Dance Floor
andru (#570)            2 hours      9 seconds    Yellow Cab
Albert (#119)           an hour      29 seconds   Dance Floor
Drave (#176)            2 hours      29 seconds   Abbe & Robyn's office
djs (#537)              2 minutes    34 seconds   Medialab
Alan (#151)             2 hours      48 seconds   The Ballroom
|>oug (#560)            58 minutes   a minute     The Ballroom
Abbe (#118)             7 minutes    2 minutes    401 Common Space
ebob (#207)             an hour      4 minutes    Dance Floor
Jave (#199)             an hour      5 minutes    Ballroom Foyer
Lenny (#115)            3 hours      10 minutes   Lenny's office
Michele (#120)          2 hours      14 minutes   The Ballroom
Jeremias (#352)         20 minutes   20 minutes   Jeremias' Office
Jade_Guest (#701)       an hour      27 minutes   Men's Dressing Room
Greg (#206)             2 hours      37 minutes   Men's Dressing Room
Guest (#113)            an hour      47 minutes   The Root Lounge
Amber_Guest (#700)      48 minutes   48 minutes   The Root Lounge
emr (#578)              3 hours      55 minutes   The Ballroom
jaime (#2)              an hour      an hour      Jaime's capacitor
Blue_Guest (#106)       2 hours      an hour      Dance Floor
Plaid_Guest (#122)      2 hours      2 hours      The Ballroom
Violet_Guest (#184)     2 hours      2 hours      Women's Dressing Room
Grey_Guest (#358)       2 hours      2 hours      Men's Dressing Room
Cerulean_Guest (#488)   3 hours      3 hours      Ballroom Foyer


Total: 28 players, 13 of whom have been active recently.




**


123


(I)


Player name                   Connected    Idle time    Location
-----------                   ---------    ---------    --------
Shasta (#49808)               0 seconds    0 seconds    Shuttle Bay
Vortex (#50457)               a minute     0 seconds    The Living Room
DeadFather (#53454)           4 minutes    0 seconds    The Kitchen
Ikem (#38727)                 a minute     a second     Generic mage object
CyberTec (#50176)             11 minutes   10 seconds   HVECs City - Xythian Dr
Green_Guest (#5722)           an hour      10 seconds   The Living Room
CardiffMOO (#49761)           3 hours      20 seconds   The Relay Room
Guest (#5704)                 an hour      22 seconds   Looking Glass Tavern Ba
u-dude (#50431)               13 minutes   25 seconds   HVECs City - Xythian Dr
Moriah (#50459)               an hour      31 seconds   Moriah's
Tony (#35849)                 44 minutes   33 seconds   The Compass Rose
Xorian (#5229)                8 minutes    41 seconds   Xorian's Apartment
Purple_Guest (#5790)          22 minutes   47 seconds   The Compass Rose
FireHeart (#42472)            11 minutes   a minute     The Living Room
Miles (#50636)                an hour      a minute     Oak Room
Warin (#49378)                32 minutes   a minute     Warin's Retreat
Euphistopheles (#50222)       50 minutes   2 minutes    Moriah's
Zippy (#23517)                8 minutes    8 minutes    Event Lab (#23917)
ashes (#18502)                21 minutes   15 minutes   Porcupine Crematorium
e (#33901)                    52 minutes   22 minutes   the vowel shaker
Falryx (#26440)               an hour      49 minutes   Catharsis
JaysHouseMOO (#52536)         12 hours     7 hours      Orbiting LambdaMOO
Puff (#1449)                  9 hours      8 hours      The Foyer
Haakon (#2)                   2 days       14 hours     Lambda's Den
FourSixEightSixOne (#46861)   21 hours     15 hours     Cinder Pile
Cloister (#34107)             2 days       15 hours     Red Dwarf
Zachary (#4670)               19 hours     18 hours     Zachary's Hangout
feh (#35841)                  20 hours     20 hours     Cinder Pile
raviv (#42513)                a day        a day        Raviv's place for the f


Total: 29 players, 17 of whom have been active recently.




(II)


Player name                   Connected    Idle time    Location
-----------                   ---------    ---------    --------
Vortex (#50457)               33 minutes   0 seconds    The Living Room
CyberTec (#50176)             43 minutes   a second     The Yard
CandyGuru (#52396)            a minute     2 seconds    The Yard
ashes (#18502)                37 seconds   3 seconds    Porcupine Crematorium
Ikem (#38727)                 33 minutes   6 seconds    Generic mage object
Moriah (#50459)               an hour      6 seconds    The Yard
u-dude (#50431)               44 minutes   7 seconds    The Yard
Teddy (#39113)                30 minutes   8 seconds    North Arcade [editing v
CardiffMOO (#49761)           4 hours      10 seconds   The Relay Room
Xorian (#5229)                39 minutes   11 seconds   Xorian's Apartment
Zippy (#23517)                39 minutes   13 seconds   The Living Room
Miles (#50636)                an hour      13 seconds   The Yard
Chaos (#6853)                 18 minutes   19 seconds   The Living Room
Xandu (#52797)                27 minutes   22 seconds   The Living Room
Venice (#41011)               21 minutes   26 seconds   The Living Room
FireHeart (#42472)            43 minutes   42 seconds   The Living Room
Purple_Guest (#5790)          53 minutes   2 minutes    The Warm Blue Carribean
Tony (#35849)                 an hour      7 minutes    The Warm Blue Carribean
Falryx (#26440)               an hour      an hour      Catharsis
JaysHouseMOO (#52536)         12 hours     7 hours      Orbiting LambdaMOO
Puff (#1449)                  9 hours      9 hours      The Foyer
Haakon (#2)                   2 days       15 hours     Lambda's Den
FourSixEightSixOne (#46861)   22 hours     15 hours     Cinder Pile
Cloister (#34107)             2 days       16 hours     Red Dwarf
Zachary (#4670)               20 hours     18 hours     Zachary's Hangout
feh (#35841)                  21 hours     21 hours     Cinder Pile
raviv (#42513)                a day        a day        Raviv's place for the f


Total: 27 players, 17 of whom have been active recently.




**


124


(I)


Player name                    Connected    Idle time    Location
-----------                    ---------    ---------    --------
Markus (#51062)                5 seconds    2 seconds    Lake Woebegon
Vortex (#50457)                2 minutes    2 seconds    The Coat Closet
ERA (#31930)                   49 minutes   2 seconds    ERA's room.
Black_Francis (#50292)         an hour      3 seconds    The Living Room
brij (#51233)                  3 minutes    4 seconds    The Coat Closet
Sylvia (#50287)                an hour      4 seconds    Master Bedroom
Magenta_Guest (#5726)          16 minutes   5 seconds    Looking Glass Tavern B
CyberTec (#50176)              2 hours      5 seconds    HVECs Maintenance Bay
Ophelia (#50198)               4 hours      5 seconds    Dungeon
Ashley (#51625)                15 minutes   7 seconds    Breezy's
slacker (#50390)               8 seconds    9 seconds    The cherry orchard
CardiffMOO (#49761)            5 minutes    9 seconds    The Relay Room
FrontierMOO (#49897)           29 minutes   10 seconds   The Relay Room
Huw (#51173)                   8 minutes    11 seconds   The Living Room
David (#50163)                 10 minutes   12 seconds   Svelte's NightClub
Bewitch (#50272)               3 minutes    13 seconds   The Compass Rose
Emile (#53452)                 19 minutes   16 seconds   The Library
Jonatha (#25251)               50 seconds   17 seconds   Somewhere, someplace
JoeFeedback (#2612)            39 minutes   17 seconds   Joe Feedback's Room
Svelte (#50430)                an hour      18 seconds   Svelte's NightClub
Phylon (#53471)                31 minutes   21 seconds   Breezy's
SamIAm (#41011)                an hour      21 seconds   Dungeon
CyberFox (#50053)              an hour      25 seconds   HVECs Maintenance Bay
Leigh-Cheri (#53476)           43 minutes   30 seconds   The Living Room
Rohan (#38904)                 2 minutes    33 seconds   Stronghold
Fizban (#50357)                4 minutes    33 seconds   The Living Room
Korvac (#34696)                13 minutes   34 seconds   The Mess
Denis (#43902)                 an hour      36 seconds   Ohio_State_Dorm
Euphistopheles (#50222)        31 minutes   37 seconds   Sanctum_Arcanum[musing
Steamed_Rhubarb_Fon (#53430)   43 minutes   37 seconds   The Living Room
Guest (#5704)                  17 minutes   38 seconds   The Living Room
Yellow_Guest (#5743)           9 minutes    44 seconds   The Living Room
Purple_Guest (#5790)           14 minutes   44 seconds   The Living Room
crayon (#39390)                2 hours      44 seconds   The Lambda MOOvie Thea
evangeline (#24846)            3 hours      44 seconds   Dream-domain
Greene (#49795)                8 minutes    50 seconds   The Mess
Zippy (#23517)                 a minute     52 seconds   Event Lab (#23917)
Cyrano-De-Bergerac (#50424)    46 minutes   53 seconds   Breezy's
Beige_Guest (#5798)            41 minutes   57 seconds   Joe Feedback's Room
Tony (#35849)                  2 hours      57 seconds   The Compass Rose
Cable (#50066)                 2 hours      a minute     Svelte's NightClub
Dred (#49925)                  41 minutes   a minute     The Living Room
Moriah (#50459)                33 minutes   a minute     Breezy's
BowHunter (#42472)             47 minutes   a minute     The Living Room
Mara (#50464)                  2 hours      2 minutes    Mara's Room
Cassnak (#13412)               37 minutes   2 minutes    Cassnak's Workroom
Ivy (#37254)                   28 minutes   5 minutes    Ivy's Cottage
Q (#28058)                     13 minutes   8 minutes    The Back Room
Val (#50285)                   an hour      8 minutes    Waterfall
JaysHouseMOO (#52536)          a day        14 minutes   Orbiting LambdaMOO
ashes (#18502)                 an hour      19 minutes   Porcupine Crematorium
Networker (#50261)             29 minutes   24 minutes   Between Worlds
Geust (#24442)                 31 minutes   29 minutes   a bubble
Elehcim (#50607)               an hour      33 minutes   The Deck
Murray (#3673)                 an hour      57 minutes   Murray's Cave
raviv (#42513)                 2 days       7 hours      Raviv's place for the
Haakon (#2)                    13 hours     12 hours     Lambda's Den
Cloister (#34107)              3 days       21 hours     Red Dwarf
FourSixEightSixOne (#46861)    a day        a day        Cinder Pile
feh (#35841)                   a day        a day        Cinder Pile


Total: 60 players, 46 of whom have been active recently.




**


126


(I)


Player name                  Connected    Idle time    Location
-----------                  ---------    ---------    --------
Fizban (#50357)              43 minutes   0 seconds    The Castle of Spiritsong
andromeda (#34201)           an hour      0 seconds    The BDP Studio's
flyboy (#53094)              an hour      a second     Dungeon
Eclipse (#49921)             10 minutes   5 seconds    The Living Room
Justy_Shadowhawke (#50017)   15 minutes   5 seconds    The Living Room
Beatos (#53478)              51 minutes   5 seconds    Love Nest
Clara (#51011)               an hour      5 seconds    Clara's room
Euphistopheles (#50222)      3 hours      5 seconds    Sanctum_Arcanum
Jase (#38731)                4 hours      9 seconds    Kath's abode
Marcus_Aurelius (#50074)     31 minutes   10 seconds   The BDP Studio's
Sal (#50408)                 9 minutes    13 seconds   The Living Room
j.w.catch (#50390)           44 minutes   13 seconds   The Living Room
Ghostwheel (#50063)          2 minutes    14 seconds   Ghostwheel's Sitting Roo
Shrapnel (#50887)            19 minutes   14 seconds   The Living Room
Simone (#50217)              an hour      15 seconds   Simone's experiment
Vortex (#50457)              a minute     16 seconds   The Coat Closet
Eris (#24929)                29 minutes   16 seconds   The Living Room
Scouser (#51100)             an hour      16 seconds   The Living Room
Moonripple (#50634)          17 minutes   17 seconds   Dungeon
Morlor (#53487)              an hour      18 seconds   The Living Room
Trystan (#44064)             5 hours      18 seconds   The BDP Studio's
Phylon (#53471)              35 minutes   19 seconds   Moor's Den Of Delight
Ophelia (#50198)             4 minutes    23 seconds   Dungeon
Exxxx (#53330)               44 minutes   23 seconds   Clara's room
Mantis (#49851)              a minute     25 seconds   Dungeon
MoorishMaiden (#50237)       26 minutes   26 seconds   Moor's Den Of Delight
u-dude (#50431)              31 minutes   26 seconds   The Gardner's Office
natasha (#17865)             6 minutes    28 seconds   Event Lab (#23917)
KRS-One (#50281)             4 minutes    32 seconds   The BDP Studio's
Blackjak (#53498)            7 minutes    32 seconds   Cinder Pile
Red_Barchetta (#50020)       6 minutes    36 seconds   Red_Barchetta's Abode
Rolf (#29985)                11 minutes   36 seconds   The Living Room
Snicklefritz (#49844)        3 minutes    39 seconds   Duldoon
Guildenstern (#38784)        9 minutes    40 seconds   The Coat Closet [mailing
Tray (#53502)                13 minutes   40 seconds   Love Nest
Manchmal (#50503)            8 minutes    47 seconds   The Hangout
Zippy (#23517)               10 minutes   59 seconds   Event Lab (#23917)
calamity_jane (#37582)       an hour      59 seconds   The BDP Studio's
Snooze (#1221)               5 hours      a minute     Dungeon
Kath (#53465)                an hour      a minute     Kath's abode
Hiro (#53239)                11 minutes   2 minutes    The Living Room
Tzu'lar (#28424)             58 minutes   2 minutes    The Living Room
CardiffMOO (#49761)          an hour      2 minutes    The Relay Room
crayon (#39390)              24 minutes   3 minutes    The Lambda MOOvie Theatr
Networker (#50261)           an hour      3 minutes    Between Worlds
Count (#35076)               38 minutes   3 minutes    The Midnight Forest
JoeFeedback (#2612)          an hour      7 minutes    Joe Feedback's Room
Elehcim (#50607)             2 hours      7 minutes    Rube Goldberg contraptio
Kilik (#2819)                23 hours     10 minutes   Kilik's Dog House
Puff (#1449)                 50 minutes   16 minutes   Mirror Behind The Bar
ashes (#18502)               35 minutes   18 minutes   Porcupine Crematorium
JaysHouseMOO (#52536)        3 days       32 minutes   Orbiting LambdaMOO
Morgantis (#53470)           40 minutes   32 minutes   a globe: United States,
Ford (#13)                   2 hours      32 minutes   Hackers' Heaven
Saul (#49059)                6 hours      41 minutes   Hackers' Heaven
Booga (#634)                 4 hours      an hour      Hole in the ground
Cloister (#34107)            5 days       an hour      Red Dwarf
Purple_Guest (#5790)         2 hours      2 hours      The Living Room
Haakon (#2)                  2 days       17 hours     Lambda's Den
raviv (#42513)               5 days       2 days       Raviv's place for the fu


Total: 60 players, 46 of whom have been active recently.


(II)


Player name                Connected    Idle time    Location
-----------                ---------    ---------    --------
Vortex (#50457)            14 minutes   0 seconds    The Living Room
Bloaf (#15550)             3 minutes    a second     The Living Room
Wolfy (#50357)             56 minutes   a second     Clara's room
andromeda (#34201)         an hour      3 seconds    November Rainbow
Crawfish (#52451)          7 minutes    4 seconds    Red_Barchetta's Abode
Iris (#50288)              10 minutes   4 seconds    Prism
Mantis (#49851)            14 minutes   4 seconds    Dungeon
Tzu'lar (#28424)           an hour      4 seconds    The Living Room
Simone (#50217)            an hour      5 seconds    Simone's experiment
Phylon (#53471)            49 minutes   7 seconds    Moor's Den Of Delight
Beatos (#53478)            an hour      7 seconds    The Loft
Scouser (#51100)           an hour      7 seconds    LambdaMOO Museum (Misc. Ob
Kath (#53465)              2 hours      7 seconds    Kath's abode
Clara (#51011)             an hour      8 seconds    Clara's room
Tom (#49961)               a minute     9 seconds    Prism
Snicklefritz (#49844)      16 minutes   9 seconds    Duldoon
Red_Barchetta (#50020)     20 minutes   9 seconds    Red_Barchetta's Abode
Blackjak (#53498)          20 minutes   10 seconds   Cinder Pile
Euphistopheles (#50222)    3 hours      10 seconds   The Hangout
Marcus_Aurelius (#50074)   44 minutes   14 seconds   The BDP Studio's
A_Smile (#46432)           4 minutes    16 seconds   Dungeon
Shrapnel (#50887)          32 minutes   18 seconds   Shrapnel's Bungalow
Jase (#38731)              4 hours      18 seconds   Kath's abode
KRS-One (#50281)           17 minutes   22 seconds   The BDP Studio's
PB (#50224)                3 minutes    26 seconds   The Loft
MoorishMaiden (#50237)     39 minutes   27 seconds   Moor's Den Of Delight
irony (#50390)             57 minutes   32 seconds   Fossil Falls
Ophelia (#50198)           17 minutes   34 seconds   Dungeon
Moonripple (#50634)        30 minutes   36 seconds   Dungeon
Mara (#50464)              6 minutes    40 seconds   Mara's Room
u-dude (#50431)            44 minutes   41 seconds   West of Green House
Manchmal (#50503)          21 minutes   42 seconds   The Hangout
Darklighter (#37537)       12 minutes   52 seconds   Moor's Den Of Delight
CardiffMOO (#49761)        2 hours      54 seconds   The Relay Room
Tray (#53502)              26 minutes   58 seconds   The Loft
Trystan (#44064)           6 hours      a minute     November Rainbow
Tobin (#27135)             12 minutes   a minute     The Living Room
calamity_jane (#37582)     an hour      a minute     The BDP Studio's
Zippy (#23517)             23 minutes   a minute     Event Lab (#23917)
crayon (#39390)            37 minutes   3 minutes    The Lambda MOOvie Theatre
Guest (#5704)              4 minutes    3 minutes    The Coat Closet
Snooze (#1221)             5 hours      8 minutes    Snoozeplace
flyboy (#53094)            an hour      8 minutes    Dungeon
JoeFeedback (#2612)        an hour      20 minutes   Joe Feedback's Room
Elehcim (#50607)           3 hours      20 minutes   Rube Goldberg contraption
Kilik (#2819)              23 hours     23 minutes   Kilik's Dog House
Puff (#1449)               an hour      29 minutes   Mirror Behind The Bar
ashes (#18502)             48 minutes   31 minutes   Porcupine Crematorium
JaysHouseMOO (#52536)      3 days       45 minutes   Orbiting LambdaMOO
Morgantis (#53470)         53 minutes   45 minutes   a globe: United States, No
Ford (#13)                 2 hours      45 minutes   Hackers' Heaven
Saul (#49059)              7 hours      54 minutes   Hackers' Heaven
Booga (#634)               4 hours      an hour      Hole in the ground
Cloister (#34107)          5 days       2 hours      Red Dwarf
Purple_Guest (#5790)       2 hours      2 hours      The Living Room
Haakon (#2)                2 days       17 hours     Lambda's Den
raviv (#42513)             5 days       2 days       Raviv's place for the fun


Total: 57 players, 41 of whom have been active recently.




**


128


Player name                    Connected    Idle time    Location
-----------                    ---------    ---------    --------
Vortex (#50457)                25 minutes   0 seconds    The Living Room
Count (#35076)                 5 hours      a second     Stormhaven [fighting C
LaTraviata (#50413)            36 minutes   2 seconds    The Serail
Drizz't (#50029)               18 minutes   3 seconds    Master Bedroom
Mandarb (#51975)               an hour      3 seconds    The Jello Pit!
Wispy (#50633)                 31 minutes   4 seconds    The Jello Pit!
Yasmin (#50394)                2 hours      4 seconds    The Warehouse [editing
Sylvia (#50287)                34 minutes   5 seconds    Master Bedroom
Euphistopheles (#50222)        an hour      5 seconds    Sanctum_Arcanum
Phylon (#53471)                an hour      7 seconds    The Living Room
Stargazer (#38481)             45 minutes   8 seconds    Happy Cottage
holten (#50205)                2 minutes    10 seconds   The Dark Side of the M
Dav (#50183)                   27 minutes   10 seconds   The Dav's room!!
Moriah (#50459)                4 hours      10 seconds   Musty Old Book Store
Black_Francis (#50292)         2 minutes    11 seconds   Cramped passage
Wyldcard (#49866)              15 minutes   13 seconds   Underwater
CyberFox (#50053)              3 hours      13 seconds   Musty Old Book Store
Clara (#51011)                 29 minutes   15 seconds   The Jello Pit!
topographic_fish (#50423)      an hour      15 seconds   Musty Old Book Store
Dano (#50448)                  52 minutes   17 seconds   Mara's Room
Ophelia (#50198)               2 hours      17 seconds   Black cube
Outshined (#53462)             7 minutes    19 seconds   The Whole
Boulder (#50186)               an hour      19 seconds   Black cube
Foobies (#23371)               3 minutes    20 seconds   The Serail
Steamed_Rhubarb_Fon (#53491)   4 minutes    22 seconds   The Living Room
LaughingMan (#50387)           36 minutes   22 seconds   The Serail
Calypso (#50099)               36 minutes   27 seconds   Calypso's Isle
Ben_Wymore (#44531)            12 minutes   30 seconds   The Living Room
SamIAm (#41011)                21 minutes   31 seconds   The Conversation Pit
Shadow_Hawke (#52777)          5 hours      31 seconds   Somewhere, someplace
Muse (#23007)                  45 minutes   34 seconds   Parnassus
Lestat (#50206)                19 minutes   39 seconds   Crypt
Mara (#50464)                  an hour      39 seconds   Mara's Room
JaysHouseMOO (#52536)          2 days       40 seconds   Orbiting LambdaMOO
Socks (#50883)                 10 minutes   41 seconds   Musty Old Book Store
Cort (#51569)                  43 minutes   41 seconds   The Jello Pit!
CyberTec (#50176)              50 minutes   46 seconds   Musty Old Book Store
Jonatha (#25251)               7 hours      51 seconds   Somewhere, someplace
Sylph (#53518)                 34 minutes   53 seconds   Panavision
Manticore (#53484)             an hour      a minute     Panavision
lisa (#53497)                  42 minutes   a minute     The Coat Closet
Plaid_Guest (#32861)           an hour      a minute     Musty Old Book Store
Sancho (#50247)                an hour      a minute     The Warehouse
Leigh-Cheri (#53476)           an hour      a minute     The Living Room
QUE (#53494)                   22 minutes   a minute     The Jello Pit!
Morpheus (#2957)               3 hours      2 minutes    The Living Room
Spice-E (#53116)               43 minutes   2 minutes    PARADISE
Harold (#53107)                10 minutes   2 minutes    The Living Room
evangeline (#24846)            40 minutes   3 minutes    The dreaming [mailing]
e (#33901)                     6 hours      4 minutes    the vowel movement
Archer (#52775)                14 minutes   4 minutes    Musty Old Book Store
Starsinger (#22691)            2 hours      9 minutes    Hot Air Balloon
Mole (#49801)                  23 minutes   11 minutes   Mole's Place
ajia (#41630)                  47 minutes   13 minutes   Ajia's teahouse
Sadie (#53422)                 an hour      23 minutes   Between The Bedsheets
Zachary (#4670)                5 hours      24 minutes   Zachary's Hangout
Praecox (#52694)               an hour      an hour      The Library
Puff (#1449)                   a day        an hour      Looking Glass Tavern B
Blue_Guest (#5720)             2 hours      2 hours      The Living Room
Guest (#5704)                  2 hours      2 hours      The Living Room
Froxx (#49853)                 6 hours      5 hours      Froxxome
Magenta_Guest (#5726)          6 hours      6 hours      The Coat Closet
Leigh-Cheri says, "thanks lestat. that's really who i want to see...:("
Zman (#23570)                  7 hours      7 hours      Z-Room
Haakon (#2)                    a day        23 hours     Lambda's Den
Green_Guest (#5722)            a day        a day        The Coat Closet
Cloister (#34107)              8 days       a day        Red Dwarf


Total: 66 players, 51 of whom have been active recently.




**


129


(I)


Player name                  Connected    Idle time    Location
-----------                  ---------    ---------    --------
Vortex (#50457)              16 minutes   0 seconds    The Living Room
Dred (#49925)                4 minutes    2 seconds    The Zero Surface (achiev
hoton (#40591)               5 minutes    3 seconds    Hellbent
Eris (#24929)                4 minutes    7 seconds    The Living Room
QUE (#53494)                 13 minutes   7 seconds    THE CASTLE
Frobno (#49397)              51 minutes   7 seconds    Corridor (academy-east)
Sylph (#53518)               41 minutes   8 seconds    Xanadu
evangeline (#24846)          10 minutes   9 seconds    The Living Room
silas (#35480)               29 minutes   10 seconds   The Body Bag
Phylon (#53471)              an hour      10 seconds   Phylon's Palace - Entran
Moriah (#50459)              31 minutes   11 seconds   Breezy's
Sadric (#46622)              20 minutes   12 seconds   The Living Room
Icefox (#53486)              an hour      12 seconds   Corridor (academy-east)
Nectar (#51261)              14 minutes   14 seconds   THE CASTLE
Plaid_Guest (#32861)         49 minutes   14 seconds   The Living Room
Mantis (#49851)              18 minutes   16 seconds   The Body Bag
Ariel (#49804)               an hour      16 seconds   Xanadu
Korvac (#34696)              54 minutes   17 seconds   Scrabble Board (not play
Socks (#50883)               3 minutes    18 seconds   Xanadu
Silicon (#50823)             59 minutes   18 seconds   The Living Room
Grump (#122)                 an hour      25 seconds   White room
PB (#50224)                  an hour      29 seconds   Scrabble Board (205 poin
Mephisto (#53101)            18 minutes   31 seconds   The Living Room
Blondie (#52119)             47 minutes   31 seconds   The Living Room
Morlor (#53487)              22 minutes   38 seconds   Pilot Recruitment Center
DarkEyes (#48036)            an hour      47 seconds   Scrabble Board (85 point
Primate's_Stick (#41732)     12 minutes   50 seconds   Pleistocene Pond
Justy_Shadowhawke (#50017)   2 minutes    a minute     Scrabble Board (171 poin
Jonny (#3920)                a minute     a minute     Jonny's Home
Xandu (#52797)               12 minutes   a minute     The Living Room
darkrider (#7003)            33 minutes   a minute     Dadarkrider's personal s
Euphistopheles (#50222)      12 minutes   3 minutes    Sanctum_Arcanum
Hiro (#53239)                an hour      6 minutes    The Black Sun
Fizban (#50357)              26 minutes   10 minutes   The Garden
flyboy (#53094)              an hour      20 minutes   MOOhangar
Sadie (#53422)               32 minutes   32 minutes   Between The Bedsheets
Haakon (#2)                  an hour      52 minutes   Lambda's Den
Greene (#49795)              56 minutes   53 minutes   The Mess (stretched out


Total: 38 players, 32 of whom have been active recently.


(II)


Player name                Connected    Idle time    Location
-----------                ---------    ---------    --------
Vortex (#50457)            42 minutes   0 seconds    Mole's Library
Mantis (#49851)            45 minutes   0 seconds    The Body Bag
Blondie (#52119)           an hour      0 seconds    The Living Room
Frobno (#49397)            an hour      0 seconds    Private Investigation Agen
Hobbes (#49920)            58 seconds   2 seconds    A Place for Hobbes
legba (#26603)             10 minutes   2 seconds    The Living Room
Manchmal (#50503)          22 minutes   2 seconds    Green room
Yonse-Erik (#50123)        21 minutes   3 seconds    Magic Department
Grump (#122)               an hour      4 seconds    Green room
Moriah (#50459)            58 minutes   5 seconds    Lonely Camp [fighting Rorr
Hiro (#53239)              an hour      6 seconds    The Living Room
Moonshadow (#49804)        an hour      6 seconds    The Living Room
Euphistopheles (#50222)    38 minutes   10 seconds   Sanctum_Arcanum
QUE (#53494)               39 minutes   10 seconds   THE CASTLE
Icefox (#53486)            an hour      10 seconds   Private Investigation Agen
Quantum-Vacuum (#53118)    24 minutes   14 seconds   The Library
evangeline (#24846)        37 minutes   14 seconds   The dreaming
Nectar (#51261)            40 minutes   15 seconds   THE CASTLE
silas (#35480)             56 minutes   15 seconds   The Body Bag
Korvac (#34696)            an hour      21 seconds   The dreaming
Judi (#53411)              15 minutes   24 seconds   The Well
Sylph (#53518)             an hour      29 seconds   The Living Room
Plaid_Guest (#32861)       an hour      35 seconds   The Living Room
Sadric (#46622)            47 minutes   37 seconds   Sadric's Room
Morlor (#53487)            48 minutes   45 seconds   Elevator
CyberTec (#50176)          25 minutes   53 seconds   HVECs City - The Square
Wolfy (#50357)             53 minutes   55 seconds   Fizban's Den
Phylon (#53471)            an hour      59 seconds   MooRaDiO
Dred (#49925)              30 minutes   a minute     The Zero Surface (achievin
Quinn (#19845)             22 minutes   a minute     The Well
Primate's_Stick (#41732)   39 minutes   a minute     Pleistocene Pond
Everlast (#50231)          5 minutes    a minute     Ely
Nosredna (#2487)           11 minutes   a minute     Nosredna's hideaway
PB (#50224)                an hour      a minute     The Loft
hoton (#40591)             32 minutes   2 minutes    Pleistocene Pond
Zippy (#23517)             13 minutes   2 minutes    The Living Room
Mephisto (#53101)          45 minutes   4 minutes    Mephisto's Private Hell
flyboy (#53094)            an hour      6 minutes    MOOhangar
Dren (#13033)              13 minutes   8 minutes    The Casting Couch
Greene (#49795)            an hour      19 minutes   The Mess (stretched out on
Chaos (#6853)              25 minutes   22 minutes   Chaos' Flat
darkrider (#7003)          an hour      28 minutes   Dadarkrider's personal spa
Sadie (#53422)             59 minutes   59 minutes   Between The Bedsheets
Haakon (#2)                an hour      an hour      Lambda's Den


Total: 44 players, 37 of whom have been active recently.




**


29PM


(I)


Player name                 Connected    Idle time    Location
-----------                 ---------    ---------    --------
Tailchaser (#50194)         8 minutes    0 seconds    Foyer
JoeFeedback (#2612)         14 minutes   a second     Joe Feedback's Room
Jens-hringr (#50266)        59 minutes   3 seconds    The Russian Tea Room
Vortex (#50457)             13 minutes   4 seconds    The Idea of Switzerland
PsychoStorm (#38317)        50 minutes   4 seconds    PsychoStorms_Room [editin
Phylon (#53471)             an hour      4 seconds    Mara's Room
t_pascal (#33015)           57 seconds   5 seconds    T. Pascal's Mansion [mail
Black-Velvet (#53553)       14 minutes   5 seconds    Bottle_of_Whiskey
Cary (#50669)               39 minutes   5 seconds    The Idea of Switzerland
Dayel (#1370)               an hour      5 seconds    Dayel's Flat
JaysHouseMOO (#52536)       10 hours     5 seconds    Orbiting LambdaMOO
Tigress (#50124)            11 minutes   6 seconds    The Jungle
JonTom (#50173)             16 minutes   6 seconds    Xorbon's Floral Shoppe
Opal (#49755)               23 minutes   6 seconds    Dayel's Flat
Greene (#49795)             3 hours      6 seconds    Brazil
Yesterday (#53581)          4 minutes    7 seconds    Mine Shaft
Yasmin (#50394)             31 minutes   8 seconds    The Russian Tea Room
Sylph (#53518)              31 minutes   10 seconds   The Pizza Parlor
Joel (#50142)               3 minutes    11 seconds   Ballroom
Quantum-Vacuum (#53118)     3 minutes    11 seconds   Inside the worm hole
The_Batman (#46102)         an hour      11 seconds   Dirty Apartment [editing
Miles (#50636)              4 hours      11 seconds   The Russian Tea Room
Jinx (#50135)               13 minutes   12 seconds   The World of Illusion
Green_Knight (#50244)       23 minutes   12 seconds   The Living Room
Bob_Barker (#34696)         47 minutes   12 seconds   Bottle_of_Whiskey
u-dude (#50431)             an hour      12 seconds   U-dude's Cottage
Blob (#21528)               10 minutes   14 seconds   The Kitchen
Nightplayer (#50262)        6 minutes    23 seconds   The Kitten's Corner
Guest (#5704)               4 minutes    24 seconds   The Living Room
Slothrop (#53564)           9 minutes    26 seconds   The Pizza Parlor
Count (#35076)              4 hours      27 seconds   Abandoned Chapel
Mordenkainen (#53120)       8 minutes    29 seconds   Mordenkainen's Research L
Zippy (#23517)              an hour      29 seconds   Event Lab (#23917)
The-Ninja (#53116)          41 minutes   31 seconds   Abandoned Chapel
Sorcerer (#50112)           7 minutes    32 seconds   Sorcerer's Workshop
Rusty (#48961)              38 minutes   33 seconds   The Living Room
Leigh-Cheri (#53476)        21 minutes   36 seconds   Xorbon's Floral Shoppe
Duvy (#50171)               9 minutes    38 seconds   Duvy's Shack
Mara (#50464)               an hour      39 seconds   Mara's Room
Zachary (#4670)             a day        39 seconds   Event Lab (#23917)
Beryn (#25433)              50 seconds   40 seconds   RoofTop
CyberTec (#50176)           22 minutes   41 seconds   HVECs CITY - Shadow Crest
Tony (#35849)               44 minutes   42 seconds   The Compass Rose
Monet (#53311)              46 minutes   44 seconds   Brazil
Merlinx_Evermore (#50378)   an hour      44 seconds   Deep Space 9
Blackbriar (#30119)         an hour      45 seconds   Blackbriar's Patch
CyberFox (#50053)           9 hours      47 seconds   In the Desert
Nil (#49747)                41 minutes   49 seconds   Abandoned Chapel
Mack-the-Knife (#47551)     13 minutes   53 seconds   The Living Room
ajia (#41630)               26 minutes   53 seconds   Kitchen garden
jerico (#34983)             3 hours      53 seconds   Radio station
lisa (#53497)               31 minutes   59 seconds   Lisa's_Room
Lemon_Curry (#51627)        7 minutes    60 seconds   The Table
legba (#26603)              16 minutes   a minute     The Living Room
Katie (#50051)              an hour      a minute     Kitchen garden
Deathstalker (#42472)       46 minutes   a minute     Pleasure Island
CardiffMOO (#49761)         6 hours      a minute     The Relay Room
Crawfish (#52451)           32 minutes   a minute     The Living Room
Morpheus (#2957)            41 minutes   a minute     Event Lab (#23917)
Moriah (#50459)             3 hours      a minute     In the Desert
Booga (#634)                3 hours      2 minutes    Booga Headquarters
Geust (#24442)              2 minutes    2 minutes    a bubble
crayon (#39390)             2 hours      2 minutes    The Lambda MOOvie Theatre
Tzu'lar (#28424)            an hour      4 minutes    The Lambda MOOvie Theatre
Primate's_Stick (#41732)    an hour      6 minutes    The Living Room
Icefox (#53486)             39 minutes   7 minutes    Crystal castle
Iccaru (#53466)             46 minutes   8 minutes    Flight_Control
Dav (#50183)                38 minutes   12 minutes   Sodden-roofed hovel
Hagbard (#36271)            3 hours      18 minutes   The Living Room
Xythian (#24436)            an hour      30 minutes   Xythian's Room
Minstrel (#32005)           an hour      38 minutes   Deep Space 9
AcidHorse (#6924)           an hour      an hour      The Grand Ballroom
Outshined (#53462)          an hour      an hour      The Whole
GregSASO (#53303)           2 hours      2 hours      SASO_Room
Kilik (#2819)               2 hours      2 hours      Kilik's Dog House
Puff (#1449)                5 hours      4 hours      Looking Glass Tavern Bar
Haakon (#2)                 a day        a day        Lambda's Den


Total: 77 players, 64 of whom have been active recently.


(II)


Player name                Connected    Idle time    Location
-----------                ---------    ---------    --------
Yesterday (#53581)         6 minutes    0 seconds    Secluded grove
Frobno (#49397)            4 minutes    a second     Candleglow
Vortex (#50457)            37 minutes   a second     The Idea of Switzerland
Jinx (#50135)              13 minutes   2 seconds    The World of Illusion
Mordenkainen (#53120)      17 minutes   2 seconds    Mordenkainen's Research La
Nightplayer (#50262)       30 minutes   2 seconds    Radio station
JoeFeedback (#2612)        37 minutes   2 seconds    Joe Feedback's Room
Yasmin (#50394)            55 minutes   2 seconds    The Russian Tea Room
CyberFox (#50053)          10 hours     4 seconds    Expedition Office
Jesus_Christ (#50194)      3 minutes    5 seconds    Deep Space 9
Guest (#5704)              28 minutes   5 seconds    The Hot Tub Deck
Dav (#50183)               an hour      5 seconds    Sodden-roofed hovel
Rusty (#48961)             an hour      5 seconds    The Living Room
Korvac (#34696)            an hour      5 seconds    The World of Illusion
The_Batman (#46102)        2 hours      5 seconds    Batmobile Platform
Velouria (#49594)          2 minutes    8 seconds    Bedroom
LaughingMan (#50387)       9 minutes    8 seconds    The Russian Tea Room
Opal (#49755)              46 minutes   8 seconds    Dayel's Flat
Mineral (#50669)           an hour      8 seconds    The Idea of Switzerland
Alison (#53311)            an hour      8 seconds    Brazil
Miles (#50636)             4 hours      8 seconds    Mordenkainen's Research La
ZenBooga (#29181)          19 minutes   9 seconds    Booga Headquarters
BoogaII (#47551)           36 minutes   9 seconds    Booga Headquarters
Booga (#634)               3 hours      10 seconds   Booga Headquarters
Boulder (#50186)           14 minutes   11 seconds   The Pizza Parlor
Leigh-Cheri (#53476)       45 minutes   11 seconds   Flight_Control
Sioned (#45623)            38 seconds   12 seconds   Sioned's Fortress
Quantum-Vacuum (#53118)    27 minutes   12 seconds   The GrandSlam Bridge Club
u-dude (#50431)            58 seconds   13 seconds   U-dude's Cottage
Tigress (#50124)           35 minutes   13 seconds   The Jungle [mailing]
Green_Knight (#50244)      47 minutes   13 seconds   Dren's Salvage Factory
Greene (#49795)            3 hours      14 seconds   Brazil
Icer (#50158)              6 minutes    15 seconds   Tropical Beach
Sylph (#53518)             54 minutes   15 seconds   The Pizza Parlor
DNA (#50267)               14 minutes   16 seconds   Ajia's teahouse
Jens-hringr (#50266)       an hour      18 seconds   The Russian Tea Room
Sorcerer (#50112)          31 minutes   19 seconds   Sorcerer's Workshop
Dayel (#1370)              an hour      19 seconds   Dayel's Flat
Morpheus (#2957)           an hour      20 seconds   Event Lab (#23917)
Moriah (#50459)            3 hours      21 seconds   Expedition Office
Margarita (#49878)         7 minutes    23 seconds   The Grand Ballroom
JaysHouseMOO (#52536)      11 hours     23 seconds   Orbiting LambdaMOO
Zachary (#4670)            a day        23 seconds   Event Lab (#23917)
Arete (#53538)             a minute     24 seconds   The Coat Closet
Joel (#50142)              26 minutes   28 seconds   Secluded grove
lisa (#53497)              55 minutes   29 seconds   Lisa's_Room
Phylon (#53471)            2 hours      33 seconds   Mara's Room
crayon (#39390)            3 hours      33 seconds   The Lambda MOOvie Theatre
Black_Francis (#50292)     a minute     38 seconds   A Rock
boogalegba (#26603)        40 minutes   38 seconds   Booga Headquarters
Mara (#50464)              an hour      40 seconds   Mara's Room
Moonshadow (#49804)        21 minutes   42 seconds   The Lambda MOOvie Theatre
jerico (#34983)            3 hours      44 seconds   Radio station
LaForge (#53606)           6 minutes    46 seconds   Deck 19: Ready Room
Nil (#49747)               an hour      48 seconds   Candleglow
BoogaXXX (#36271)          3 hours      49 seconds   Booga Headquarters
WhiteRabbit (#3685)        7 minutes    a minute     Bedroom (WhiteRabbit's hou
CardiffMOO (#49761)        7 hours      a minute     The Relay Room
Boogabooga (#50224)        10 minutes   a minute     Booga Headquarters
BoogaVII (#52451)          56 minutes   a minute     Booga Headquarters
Spice-E (#53116)           an hour      a minute     PARADISE
JerseyGirl (#50239)        11 minutes   2 minutes    The waterbed
Geust (#24442)             26 minutes   2 minutes    a bubble
PsychoStorm (#38317)       an hour      2 minutes    PsychoStorms_Room [editing
Primate's_Stick (#41732)   an hour      3 minutes    Booga Headquarters
Deathstalker (#42472)      an hour      3 minutes    Pleasure Island
Blackbriar (#30119)        2 hours      3 minutes    Blackbriar's Patch
Zippy (#23517)             an hour      3 minutes    Event Lab (#23917)
ajia (#41630)              50 minutes   4 minutes    Ajia's teahouse
Tzu'lar (#28424)           an hour      7 minutes    Pretentious Abode
Count (#35076)             5 hours      7 minutes    Abandoned Chapel
Tony (#35849)              an hour      7 minutes    The Compass Rose
Icefox (#53486)            an hour      31 minutes   Crystal castle
Minstrel (#32005)          2 hours      an hour      Deep Space 9
Outshined (#53462)         an hour      an hour      The Whole
GregSASO (#53303)          2 hours      2 hours      SASO_Room
Kilik (#2819)              2 hours      2 hours      Kilik's Dog House
Puff (#1449)               5 hours      4 hours      Looking Glass Tavern Bar
Haakon (#2)                a day        a day        Lambda's Den


Total: 79 players, 69 of whom have been active recently.




**


2-12:


(I)


Player name               Connected    Idle time    Location
-----------               ---------    ---------    --------
Marble (#50454)           13 seconds   0 seconds    The Beach
Wyldcard (#49866)             an hour      0 seconds    THE CASTLE
Dicky (#52630)                56 minutes   a second     The Rose Gardens
Iccaru (#53466)               an hour      a second     Stormhaven [fighting Sp
Nectar (#51261)               3 hours      a second     THE CASTLE
Guest (#5704)                 a minute     2 seconds    Looking Glass Tavern Ba
Alyssa (#53721)               12 minutes   3 seconds    The Rose Gardens
Svelte (#50430)               2 hours      4 seconds    Svelte's NightClub
Dred (#49925)                 3 hours      4 seconds    Ajia's teahouse
PatGently (#37637)            57 minutes   6 seconds    Ajia's teahouse
Blue_Guest (#5720)            31 minutes   7 seconds    The Library
Rusty (#48961)                32 minutes   8 seconds    Ajia's teahouse
Bane (#50064)                 23 minutes   10 seconds   The Rose Gardens
Falkon (#50135)               42 minutes   10 seconds   The Rose Gardens
Aviendha (#53464)             an hour      10 seconds   The Aiel Waste
SPICE-E (#53116)              an hour      10 seconds   The Rose Gardens
Dav (#50183)                  an hour      11 seconds   Stormhaven
{Dream} (#35203)              25 minutes   13 seconds   The Living Room
Sylvia (#50287)               5 minutes    14 seconds   Master Bedroom
Wattsman (#50108)             6 minutes    14 seconds   Van
Carlos (#53533)               12 minutes   14 seconds   Ajia's teahouse
Kray (#53613)                 6 minutes    15 seconds   The Rose Gardens
David (#50163)                2 hours      15 seconds   Svelte's NightClub
Silver_Rocket (#53699)        14 minutes   17 seconds   The Dining Room
Mierin (#48308)               an hour      17 seconds   The Living Room
CardiffMOO (#49761)           a day        18 seconds   The Relay Room
Sick (#41057)                 13 minutes   24 seconds   Ajia's teahouse
Red_Guest (#5707)             5 hours      26 seconds   The Rose Gardens
Orange (#49888)               6 minutes    28 seconds   Blasted hole
Lemon_Curry (#51627)          an hour      30 seconds   The Rose Gardens
Euphistopheles (#50222)       an hour      30 seconds   Sanctum_Arcanum [editin
Pasha (#49936)                35 minutes   32 seconds   Tavern Second Floor
Ponytail (#53706)             3 hours      32 seconds   The Rose Gardens
Dartsey (#52024)              6 minutes    42 seconds   Mara's Room
Mara (#50464)                 17 minutes   42 seconds   Mara's Room
Humpty (#53702)               2 hours      45 seconds   The Rose Gardens
ajia (#41630)                 an hour      46 seconds   Ajia's teahouse
Count (#35076)                6 hours      a minute     Abandoned Chapel
Zippy (#23517)                4 hours      2 minutes    Ajia's teahouse
Blackay (#53704)              19 minutes   3 minutes    Secluded grove
sol (#4290)                   24 minutes   4 minutes    First Floor Corridor
PaulSimon (#35871)            an hour      4 minutes    A Comfy, Musical place
feh (#35841)                  an hour      6 minutes    Ajia's teahouse
e (#33901)                    2 hours      6 minutes    the vowel movement
Specter (#51468)              52 minutes   8 minutes    The Entrance Hall
Moriah (#50459)               14 minutes   10 minutes   An old chest
Sadie (#53422)                3 hours      38 minutes   Between The Bedsheets
JaysHouseMOO (#52536)         12 hours     39 minutes   Orbiting LambdaMOO
Hagbard (#36271)              45 minutes   43 minutes   Hag's [musing]
Nick (#49922)                 an hour      an hour      Study Room
Robbie(Upsidedown) (#26941)   an hour      an hour      Robbie's room
Ahtraddis (#31289)            2 hours      2 hours      Booga Headquarters
Puff (#1449)                  6 hours      5 hours      Looking Glass Tavern Ba
Zman (#23570)                 7 hours      7 hours      Z-Room
Zachary (#4670)               a day        a day        Zachary's Hangout


Total: 54 players, 41 of whom have been active recently.




**


2-19


(I)


Player name                 Connected    Idle time    Location
-----------                 ---------    ---------    --------
Vortex (#50457)             a minute     0 seconds    Gam-Bit's
The_Great_Yogurt (#53472)   7 minutes    0 seconds    The Warehouse
WhiteRabbit (#3685)         17 minutes   0 seconds    PatGently's room
hoton (#40591)              27 minutes   0 seconds    West LambdaStreet
Miles (#50636)              2 hours      0 seconds    Sodden-roofed hovel
Mole (#49801)               3 hours      0 seconds    Mole's Room
Jant (#46729)               4 hours      0 seconds    Scrabble Board (154 point
Dicky (#52630)              25 minutes   8 seconds    The Kitchen
PaulSimon (#35871)          52 minutes   10 seconds   A Comfy, Musical place
Blue_Guest (#5720)          7 minutes    11 seconds   The Kitchen
Star (#25685)               28 minutes   15 seconds   Bubble (Worn)
Zippy (#23517)              2 hours      15 seconds   Event Lab (#23917)
Red_Guest (#5707)           30 minutes   16 seconds   The Kitchen
Morgoth (#53695)            32 minutes   19 seconds   Morgoth's Play Room (adul
The_Blue_Wizard (#53117)    an hour      19 seconds   The Blue Wizard's Master
Green_Guest (#5722)         an hour      19 seconds   Scrabble Board (188 point
Beryn (#25433)              25 minutes   22 seconds   Bubble (Worn)
Count (#35076)              52 minutes   22 seconds   Altar of the Grove [sleep
Dahg_Rastubfari (#49830)    an hour      22 seconds   Scrabble Board (105 point
ajia (#41630)               an hour      22 seconds   Mole's Room
CyberTec (#50176)           2 hours      22 seconds   HVECs Maintenance Bay - L
Teal_Guest (#5789)          10 minutes   23 seconds   The Coat Closet
Quinn (#19845)              3 hours      23 seconds   Nocturne
Babette (#30647)            27 minutes   24 seconds   The Hot Tub
technocat (#39292)          2 minutes    29 seconds   Technorock
JaysHouseMOO (#52536)       2 hours      29 seconds   Orbiting LambdaMOO
Blue_Thunder (#50409)       18 minutes   30 seconds   The Kitchen
Magenta_Guest (#5726)       42 seconds   32 seconds   The Kitchen
Bewitch (#50272)            a minute     35 seconds   Mousike [mailing]
Kurt (#41687)               49 minutes   38 seconds   Mole's Room
Moriah (#50459)             2 hours      38 seconds   Nocturne
Walker (#50073)             17 minutes   42 seconds   The Kitchen
PatGently (#37637)          16 minutes   43 seconds   PatGently's room
Dred (#49925)               31 minutes   43 seconds   Mole's Room
Manchmal (#50503)           an hour      44 seconds   Sodden-roofed hovel
Kerbouchard (#54370)        20 minutes   57 seconds   Armoury
Rusty (#48961)              an hour      a minute     Mole's Room
Silver_Rocket (#53699)      54 minutes   a minute     Mole's Room
caRRoT (#47498)             45 minutes   a minute     Ajia's teahouse
Grump (#122)                25 minutes   2 minutes    Black room
Black_Francis (#50292)      an hour      3 minutes    Secluded grove
Shadowspawn (#45160)        4 minutes    3 minutes    Study Room
Pluto (#50741)              17 minutes   4 minutes    The Disney Store
Starfire (#45743)           8 hours      4 minutes    Secluded grove
Hagbard (#36271)            18 minutes   5 minutes    Hag's [musing]
Simon (#53468)              12 minutes   6 minutes    Black room
Euphistopheles (#50222)     5 hours      8 minutes    An_Atrium
Brand (#53308)              13 minutes   13 minutes   The Coat Closet
Outshined (#53462)          17 hours     20 minutes   The Whole
Ivy (#37254)                37 minutes   22 minutes   Home
Cassnak (#13412)            28 minutes   28 minutes   Cassnak's Workroom [editi
Fizban (#50357)             7 hours      an hour      The Castle of Spiritsong
Haakon (#2)                 4 days       an hour      Lambda's Den
Einstein (#36364)           4 hours      an hour      Einstein's Lair of Excell
Puff (#1449)                8 hours      2 hours      Looking Glass Tavern Bar
Leigh-Cheri (#53476)        3 hours      2 hours      Academy
Plaid_Guest (#32861)        3 hours      3 hours      The Living Room
Marcus_Aurelius (#50074)    4 hours      4 hours      The Living Room
Guest (#5704)               6 hours      5 hours      The Coat Closet
Purple_Guest (#5790)        7 hours      7 hours      The Coat Closet
Autumn (#37781)             7 hours      7 hours      Alba
46861 (#46861)              7 hours      7 hours      The Kitchen
Ahtraddis (#31289)          a day        10 hours     Ahtraddis' Workshop


Total: 63 players, 44 of whom have been active recently.
(II)


Player name                 Connected    Idle time    Location
-----------                 ---------    ---------    --------
Vortex (#50457)             9 minutes    a second     Bovine Illuminati Library
Walker (#50073)             25 minutes   a second     The Kitchen
caRrOt (#47498)             53 minutes   a second     Ajia's teahouse
Star (#25685)               36 minutes   2 seconds    Bubble (Worn)
Morgoth (#53695)            40 minutes   2 seconds    a globe: Earth
CyberTec (#50176)           3 hours      2 seconds    The Living Room
Beryn (#25433)              33 minutes   3 seconds    Bubble (Worn)
hoton (#40591)              35 minutes   3 seconds    Hellbent
Zachary (#4670)             4 minutes    4 seconds    Zachary's Hangout
Bewitch (#50272)            9 minutes    4 seconds    An_Atrium
The_Great_Yogurt (#53472)   15 minutes   4 seconds    The Warehouse [editing ve
Kurt (#41687)               57 minutes   4 seconds    Mole's Room
Count (#35076)              an hour      4 seconds    Secluded grove
Simon (#53468)              20 minutes   7 seconds    Black room
PaulSimon (#35871)          an hour      7 seconds    A Comfy, Musical place
Mole (#49801)               3 hours      7 seconds    Mole's Room
Jant (#46729)               4 hours      11 seconds   Scrabble Board (161 point
Euphistopheles (#50222)     5 hours      11 seconds   An_Atrium
Dred (#49925)               39 minutes   12 seconds   Mole's Room
Moriah (#50459)             2 hours      12 seconds   Nocturne
Magenta_Guest (#5726)       8 minutes    14 seconds   The Living Room
Miles (#50636)              2 hours      15 seconds   Sodden-roofed hovel
Black_Francis (#50292)      an hour      16 seconds   Cavern
ajia (#41630)               2 hours      17 seconds   Mole's Room
Quinn (#19845)              3 hours      17 seconds   Nocturne
Teal_Guest (#5789)          18 minutes   20 seconds   The Living Room
PatGently (#37637)          24 minutes   31 seconds   PatGently's room
Kerbouchard (#54370)        28 minutes   32 seconds   Batcave
Grump (#122)                33 minutes   32 seconds   Black room
WhiteRabbit (#3685)         25 minutes   35 seconds   PatGently's room
Blue_Thunder (#50409)       26 minutes   35 seconds   The Kitchen
Manchmal (#50503)           an hour      35 seconds   Sodden-roofed hovel
Blue_Guest (#5720)          45 seconds   48 seconds   The Coat Closet
SamIAm (#41011)             3 minutes    48 seconds   PatGently's room
The_Blue_Wizard (#53117)    an hour      48 seconds   The Blue Wizard's Master
Dahg_Rastubfari (#49830)    an hour      48 seconds   Scrabble Board (105 point
Einstein (#36364)           5 hours      48 seconds   Einstein's Lair of Excell
Red_Guest (#5707)           38 minutes   a minute     The Living Room
Rusty (#48961)              an hour      a minute     Mole's Room
Green_Guest (#5722)         2 hours      a minute     Scrabble Board (195 point
Froxx (#49853)              2 minutes    a minute     Froxxome
Silver_Rocket (#53699)      an hour      a minute     Mole's Room
Shadowspawn (#45160)        12 minutes   2 minutes    Study Room
Zippy (#23517)              2 hours      3 minutes    Event Lab (#23917)
Babette (#30647)            35 minutes   3 minutes    The Living Room
JaysHouseMOO (#52536)       2 hours      4 minutes    Orbiting LambdaMOO
Pluto (#50741)              25 minutes   12 minutes   The Disney Store
Starfire (#45743)           8 hours      12 minutes   Secluded grove
Hagbard (#36271)            26 minutes   13 minutes   Hag's [musing]
Brand (#53308)              21 minutes   21 minutes   The Coat Closet
Outshined (#53462)          18 hours     28 minutes   The Whole
Ivy (#37254)                45 minutes   30 minutes   Home
Cassnak (#13412)            37 minutes   36 minutes   Cassnak's Workroom [editi
Fizban (#50357)             7 hours      an hour      The Castle of Spiritsong
Haakon (#2)                 4 days       an hour      Lambda's Den
Puff (#1449)                9 hours      2 hours      Looking Glass Tavern Bar
Leigh-Cheri (#53476)        3 hours      3 hours      Academy
Plaid_Guest (#32861)        3 hours      3 hours      The Living Room
Marcus_Aurelius (#50074)    5 hours      5 hours      The Living Room
Guest (#5704)               6 hours      5 hours      The Coat Closet
Purple_Guest (#5790)        7 hours      7 hours      The Coat Closet
Autumn (#37781)             7 hours      7 hours      Alba
46861 (#46861)              7 hours      7 hours      The Kitchen
Ahtraddis (#31289)          a day        10 hours     Ahtraddis' Workshop




**


221


(I)


Player name                Connected    Idle time    Location
-----------                ---------    ---------    --------
Marble (#50454)            10 minutes   0 seconds    The Living Room
Black_Francis (#50292)     8 minutes    2 seconds    Secluded grove
Exxxx (#53330)             an hour      2 seconds    The Living Room
Autumn (#37781)            17 minutes   3 seconds    Stone Cottage
Mephisto (#53101)          34 minutes   3 seconds    Mephisto's Private Hell
Ophelia (#50198)           4 hours      3 seconds    Loch Raven Tower
Marbles (#48810)           25 minutes   5 seconds    a globe: The Terrace, esca
Storm (#50282)             47 minutes   5 seconds    Waterfall
Jeye (#42982)              an hour      5 seconds    Hell-Spawn-Vat
Blackay (#53704)           55 seconds   6 seconds    Master Bedroom
Teal_Guest (#5789)         32 minutes   6 seconds    a globe: Hippodrome, Londo
Carlos (#53533)            4 seconds    7 seconds    The Coat Closet
Fizban (#50357)            20 minutes   8 seconds    The Castle of Spiritsong a
Goofball (#50121)          45 minutes   9 seconds    Wacky World
Foobies (#23371)           7 minutes    10 seconds   The Living Room
Necromancer (#53702)       32 minutes   10 seconds   Galactica
emma (#49869)              55 minutes   11 seconds   The Living Room
Delta (#54214)             a minute     12 seconds   The Entrance Hall
Han_Solo (#53491)          49 minutes   12 seconds   Millenium Falcon
Avenger (#50204)           26 minutes   13 seconds   Wacky World
Euphistopheles (#50222)    52 minutes   13 seconds   Sanctum_Arcanum [mailing]
Moriah (#50459)            2 hours      13 seconds   North of Crag [fighting Fl
Joel (#50142)              2 hours      15 seconds   North of Crag
JoanOfArk (#54197)         37 minutes   16 seconds   The Living Room [mailing]
Auditor (#53513)           49 seconds   18 seconds   Auditor's House
Sick (#41057)              6 minutes    18 seconds   The Quiet Room
Val (#50285)               20 minutes   20 seconds   Waterfall
Jacquio (#51487)           an hour      20 seconds   Hell
Zippy (#23517)             4 hours      20 seconds   Event Lab (#23917)
Marlboro (#53408)          5 minutes    24 seconds   The Living Room
Guest (#5704)              a minute     25 seconds   The Living Room
Gethyenki (#50389)         10 minutes   25 seconds   Armoury
Tristan (#53707)           38 minutes   25 seconds   The Catacombs
Purple_Guest (#5790)       48 seconds   26 seconds   The Coat Closet
Nightplayer (#50262)       3 minutes    28 seconds   You see My Very Own Place
Pandora (#52615)           25 minutes   43 seconds   The Living Room
Denara (#53705)            31 minutes   46 seconds   Master Bedroom
Priestess (#49921)         an hour      46 seconds   The Living Room
Nitram (#33005)            15 minutes   47 seconds   The Living Room
Elixir (#54102)            9 minutes    49 seconds   The Catacombs
Stace (#48442)             11 minutes   54 seconds   Stace's bedroom
Arielle (#53480)           41 minutes   60 seconds   Loch Raven Tower
Quantum-Vacuum (#53118)    3 hours      a minute     The Living Room
Corwin (#50279)            an hour      a minute     Forked Path
Katie (#50051)             36 minutes   a minute     The Living Room
Sorcerer (#50112)          2 minutes    2 minutes    Sorcerer's Workshop
Tex (#53595)               5 minutes    2 minutes    Tex's Crib
Beryn (#25433)             2 minutes    2 minutes    Bubble (Worn)
Grump (#122)               28 minutes   2 minutes    Purple room
Red_Guest (#5707)          an hour      2 minutes    Master Bedroom
Alexis (#53488)            an hour      3 minutes    The Living Room
Mole (#49801)              13 minutes   4 minutes    Mole's Library-Circulating
JoeFeedback (#2612)        11 minutes   6 minutes    Joe Feedback's Room
Joe_Strout (#33290)        18 minutes   17 minutes   Shelly and Joe's Bedroom
Deicide (#49824)           an hour      18 minutes   Hell-Spawn-Vat
Count (#35076)             2 hours      19 minutes   Nil's Dreaming Zone
Babette (#30647)           a day        2 hours      Jacquio's Tower Top
Ahtraddis (#31289)         3 days       12 hours     Ahtraddis' Workshop
Puff (#1449)               13 hours     12 hours     Desire
Green_Guest (#5722)        16 hours     16 hours     Master Bedroom
Haakon (#2)                5 days       a day        Lambda's Den
Marcus_Aurelius (#50074)   a day        a day        Cinder Pile
46861 (#46861)             a day        a day        The Kitchen


Total: 63 players, 52 of whom have been active recently.


(II)


Player name                Connected    Idle time    Location
-----------                ---------    ---------    --------
Kath (#53465)              37 seconds   a second     Kath's abode
Foobies (#23371)           21 minutes   a second     The Living Room
KRS-One (#50281)           a minute     2 seconds    The Living Room
Storm (#50282)             an hour      2 seconds    Waterfall
Han_Solo (#53491)          an hour      2 seconds    Millenium Falcon
Corwin (#50279)            an hour      2 seconds    Secluded grove
Joel (#50142)              2 hours      2 seconds    North of Crag [fighting Fl
Moriah (#50459)            3 hours      2 seconds    Secluded grove
Gethyenki (#50389)         24 minutes   5 seconds    Crawlway
Purple_Guest (#5790)       4 minutes    6 seconds    The Living Room
Miles (#50636)             7 minutes    6 seconds    Oak Room
Jeye (#42982)              an hour      6 seconds    Hell-Spawn-Vat
Jacquio (#51487)           an hour      6 seconds    Hell's library
Marble (#50454)            23 minutes   7 seconds    a globe: Canada, North Ame
Priestess (#49921)         an hour      8 seconds    The Living Room
Blue_Guest (#5720)         4 minutes    9 seconds    The Pool Deck
Image (#50375)             12 minutes   9 seconds    Ruby
Marlboro (#53408)          19 minutes   9 seconds    The Entrance Hall
Quantum-Vacuum (#53118)    4 hours      9 seconds    The Library
Tristan (#53707)           52 minutes   12 seconds   The Catacombs
Alexis (#53488)            an hour      12 seconds   The Living Room
Val (#50285)               34 minutes   14 seconds   Waterfall
Avenger (#50204)           40 minutes   14 seconds   Avengers palace
silas (#35480)             a minute     23 seconds   Silas's Home
Plaid_Guest (#32861)       5 minutes    24 seconds   The Kitchen Patio
Arielle (#53480)           55 minutes   24 seconds   Loch Raven Tower
Guest (#5704)              15 minutes   29 seconds   The Living Room
Pandora (#52615)           39 minutes   29 seconds   The Deck
Katie (#50051)             50 minutes   32 seconds   Kitchen garden
Black_Francis (#50292)     22 minutes   39 seconds   Hell-Spawn-Vat
Elixir (#54102)            23 minutes   39 seconds   The Catacombs
Necromancer (#53702)       46 minutes   47 seconds   Galactica
Teal_Guest (#5789)         46 minutes   47 seconds   a globe: Canada, North Ame
emma (#49869)              an hour      50 seconds   The Living Room
Marbles (#48810)           39 minutes   a minute     a globe: Canada, North Ame
Jant (#46729)              10 minutes   a minute     Mild Roaming Plain
Sick (#41057)              20 minutes   a minute     The Quiet Room
Blackay (#53704)           14 minutes   a minute     The Living Room
Ophelia (#50198)           4 hours      a minute     Loch Raven Tower
Nitram (#33005)            28 minutes   2 minutes    a globe: Oxford, England
Denara (#53705)            45 minutes   3 minutes    Dressing Area
Zippy (#23517)             4 hours      5 minutes    Event Lab (#23917)
kessura (#49710)           13 minutes   6 minutes    Another Coat Closet
Red_Guest (#5707)          an hour      8 minutes    Master Bedroom
Fizban (#50357)            34 minutes   11 minutes   The Castle of Spiritsong a
Mephisto (#53101)          48 minutes   13 minutes   Mephisto's Private Hell
Stace (#48442)             25 minutes   14 minutes   Stace's bedroom
Grump (#122)               42 minutes   16 minutes   Purple room
Joe_Strout (#33290)        31 minutes   31 minutes   Shelly and Joe's Bedroom
Deicide (#49824)           an hour      32 minutes   Hell-Spawn-Vat
Count (#35076)             2 hours      32 minutes   Nil's Dreaming Zone
Babette (#30647)           a day        2 hours      Jacquio's Tower Top
Ahtraddis (#31289)         3 days       12 hours     Ahtraddis' Workshop
Puff (#1449)               13 hours     13 hours     Desire
Green_Guest (#5722)        16 hours     16 hours     Master Bedroom
Haakon (#2)                5 days       a day        Lambda's Den
Marcus_Aurelius (#50074)   a day        a day        Cinder Pile


Total: 57 players, 41 of whom have been active recently.




**


226


Player name               Connected    Idle time    Location
-----------               ---------    ---------    --------
Vortex (#50457)           45 seconds   a second     Gam-Bit's
Dicky (#52630)            a minute     a second     The Living Room
Lestat (#50206)           56 seconds   a second     Coffin
Jeye (#42982)             10 minutes   a second     Neo-Scrabble Board (not pla
Prince_Louis (#53333)     18 minutes   a second     Chewed Tunnel (termiteland)
Lightbringer (#53581)     33 minutes   a second     Muddy Path [fighting Willie
Blue_Guest (#5720)        53 minutes   a second     The Living Room
Denny (#43902)            an hour      a second     Ajia's teahouse
Count (#35076)            2 hours      a second     North of Crag
Arracun (#53611)          2 hours      a second     The Living Room
JaysHouseMOO (#52536)     2 hours      a second     Orbiting LambdaMOO
ajia (#41630)             2 hours      a second     Ajia's teahouse
Hiro (#53239)             3 hours      a second     The Living Room
Starfire (#45743)         4 hours      a second     North of Crag
Outshined (#53462)        4 hours      a second     Neo-Scrabble Board (not pla
Thunder (#50183)          19 minutes   9 seconds    Secluded grove
Radar (#52968)            9 minutes    12 seconds   The Hot Tub
A_Smile (#46432)          18 minutes   12 seconds   Messiah's Blissful Temple
Silicon (#50823)          2 hours      12 seconds   Debate Room
Green_Guest (#5722)       48 minutes   13 seconds   Private Beach
Jon-Tom (#50173)          17 minutes   14 seconds   Ajia's teahouse
Dred (#49925)             2 hours      14 seconds   Ajia's teahouse
Moriah (#50459)           2 hours      17 seconds   Neo-Scrabble Board (172 poi
Miles (#50636)            3 hours      19 seconds   Neo-Scrabble Board (193 poi
Sick (#41057)             50 minutes   21 seconds   Ajia's teahouse
PB (#50224)               57 minutes   21 seconds   Neo-Scrabble Board (not pla
B-Squared (#50386)        an hour      23 seconds   The Living Room
CyberTec (#50176)         23 minutes   24 seconds   Neo-Scrabble Board (not pla
Abraxas (#42395)          24 minutes   25 seconds   Ajia's teahouse
Russ_Freeman (#50429)     54 seconds   27 seconds   The St. James Club
Messiah (#53522)          3 hours      27 seconds   Messiah's Blissful Temple
PaulSimon (#35871)        39 minutes   28 seconds   Private Beach
RocketMan (#53094)        11 minutes   30 seconds   The Living Room
Beryn (#25433)            47 minutes   30 seconds   The Kitchen
Buddy (#53503)            2 hours      30 seconds   Muddy Path
Plutonium (#51467)        13 minutes   38 seconds   The Living Room
Nectar (#51261)           14 minutes   38 seconds   THE CASTLE
Grump (#122)              an hour      45 seconds   Blue room
Sim (#53519)              5 minutes    46 seconds   Globe of Frogs
X-Static (#54218)         21 minutes   46 seconds   Smurfadelic
Quinn (#19845)            4 hours      52 seconds   Neo-Scrabble Board (160 poi
Sylvia (#50287)           33 minutes   56 seconds   Master Bedroom
Plus 11 other players (53 total; out of time and lag is high)




**


326


Player name               Connected    Idle time    Location
-----------               ---------    ---------    --------
Plexus (#53592)           2 hours      3 seconds    Black Lake [fighting Cennor
Moonshadow (#49804)       13 minutes   5 seconds    Club Dred
Nectar (#51261)           2 hours      5 seconds    Svelte's NightClub
Vortex (#50457)           30 minutes   8 seconds    Gam-Bit's
Mineral (#50669)          8 minutes    9 seconds    Underground Cowsino
Icer (#50158)             4 minutes    10 seconds   Tropical Beach
Guest (#5704)             12 minutes   10 seconds   The Kitchen
Maverick (#53483)         an hour      11 seconds   The Library
ManCub (#54952)           3 hours      11 seconds   Club Dred
Amadeus (#34987)          28 minutes   12 seconds   Underground Cowsino
Beige_Guest (#5798)       43 minutes   12 seconds   Club Dred
Quinn (#19845)            48 minutes   12 seconds   Makeshift Cave
Starfire (#45743)         3 hours      12 seconds   Summer Sky
Frobno (#49397)           2 hours      13 seconds   Black Lake
Obvious (#54879)          a minute     14 seconds   Obvious Research Ltd
ajia (#41630)             12 minutes   14 seconds   Club Dred
PatGently (#37637)        15 minutes   15 seconds   Underground Cowsino
Dr.Fate (#23809)          3 minutes    18 seconds   The Living Room
Zooey (#53554)            11 minutes   18 seconds   Mountain Cabin
He (#50117)               16 minutes   18 seconds   Svelte's NightClub
APHiD (#31783)            27 minutes   18 seconds   APHiD's Office [editing ver
CardiffMOO (#49761)       16 hours     18 seconds   Between Worlds
Moriah (#50459)           2 hours      21 seconds   Deepthought's Domain (Level
Chaos (#6853)             43 minutes   23 seconds   Makeshift Cave
Michael (#34696)          2 hours      23 seconds   Club Dred
ghond (#48)               a minute     25 seconds   Ghond's groovy pad
Brautigan (#54778)        30 minutes   25 seconds   A Simple Mountain Cabin
Eris (#24929)             9 minutes    26 seconds   The Living Room
Thunder (#50183)          55 minutes   28 seconds   Black Lake [fighting Cennor
Miles (#50636)            5 hours      32 seconds   Deepthought's Domain (Level
Teal_Guest (#5789)        51 seconds   33 seconds   The Coat Closet
Mandarb (#51975)          31 minutes   42 seconds   Mountain Cabin
Ophelia (#50198)          38 minutes   47 seconds   A Simple Mountain Cabin
Sal (#50408)              6 minutes    49 seconds   The Living Room
Flatlander (#54930)       2 hours      58 seconds   It's Not Indiana
Quastro (#55065)          2 hours      a minute     Isfania's and Quastro's Tre
Mole (#49801)             29 minutes   a minute     Club Dred [editing verbs]
Starsinger (#22691)       25 minutes   a minute     Underground Cowsino
Katie (#50051)            2 hours      2 minutes    Kitchen garden
Arracun (#53611)          3 hours      2 minutes    Kitchen garden
PaulSimon (#35871)        40 minutes   2 minutes    A Comfy, Musical place
Terminator! (#53494)      54 minutes   3 minutes    Stormhaven
Blake (#45626)            5 minutes    3 minutes    Blake's room
Isfania (#30647)          14 minutes   13 minutes   Isfania's and Quastro's Tre
Michele (#50607)          2 hours      16 minutes   A Quiet Room
Greene (#49795)           2 hours      17 minutes   The Mess (stretched out on
Cpt.Vader (#50739)        an hour      21 minutes   The Bedroom
Grump (#122)              an hour      49 minutes   Blue room
Euphistopheles (#50222)   7 hours      50 minutes   Sanctum Arcanum[musing, on
wyrmtongue (#50666)       7 hours      an hour      Sanctum Arcanum
Zachary (#4670)           a day        3 hours      Zachary's Hangout
Puff (#1449)              5 hours      5 hours      Mirror Behind The Bar
Minstrel (#32005)         5 hours      5 hours      Desire
Player (#1780)            23 hours     23 hours     Throne Room
Cloister (#34107)         a day        a day        Red Dwarf
Einstein (#36364)         6 days       6 days       Einstein's Lair of Excellen


Total: 56 players, 43 of whom have been active recently.




**


EVE123


(I)


Player name                   Connected    Idle time    Location
-----------                   ---------    ---------    --------
Vortex (#50457)               8 minutes    0 seconds    The Library
Magenta_Guest (#5726)         59 seconds   a second     The Coat Closet
ajia (#41630)                 12 minutes   3 seconds    Ajia's teahouse
DaveM (#32063)                14 minutes   3 seconds    Graceland/Jungle Room
Mack-the-Knife (#47551)       24 minutes   4 seconds    The Living Room
Storm (#50282)                52 minutes   4 seconds    The Dav's room!!
Susan (#51259)                30 minutes   7 seconds    Stairwell (4251998th Su
Korvac (#34696)               an hour      9 seconds    The Serail
Beige_Guest (#5798)           5 hours      9 seconds    Ohio_State_Dorm
Xandu (#52797)                11 minutes   13 seconds   The Entrance Hall
Fizban (#50357)               45 minutes   13 seconds   Kath's abode
Archer (#52775)               53 minutes   13 seconds   Underground Arcadia [ed
Zippy (#23517)                an hour      13 seconds   Event Lab (#23917)
Sick (#41057)                 23 minutes   17 seconds   The Sick Room
Demian (#50389)               18 minutes   20 seconds   The Library
Iccaru (#53466)               45 minutes   20 seconds   Cinder Pile
Phylon (#53471)               an hour      22 seconds   The Dav's room!!
Shelly_Marie (#50289)         36 seconds   25 seconds   Shelly and Joe's Bedroo
Cable (#50066)                29 minutes   26 seconds   The Dav's room!!
Chaos (#6853)                 39 seconds   27 seconds   Chaos' Flat
Kath (#53465)                 38 minutes   29 seconds   Kath's abode
LaTraviata (#50413)           6 minutes    47 seconds   The Serail
Denis (#43902)                3 hours      49 seconds   Ohio_State_Dorm
Cpt.Vader (#50739)            an hour      a minute     Altar of the Grove [sle
JaysHouseMOO (#52536)         19 hours     a minute     Orbiting LambdaMOO
CardiffMOO (#49761)           11 hours     a minute     The Relay Room
Guest (#5704)                 30 minutes   a minute     Stairwell (15th Sub-bas
Opal (#49755)                 45 minutes   2 minutes    Blackbriar's Patch
Rohan (#38904)                3 minutes    3 minutes    Stronghold
Booga (#634)                  44 minutes   6 minutes    The Living Room
CyberFox (#50053)             11 minutes   7 minutes    Artemis
Blbrar (#30119)               18 minutes   7 minutes    Blackbriar's Patch
Hagbard (#36271)              an hour      10 minutes   The Living Room
Froxx (#49853)                50 minutes   49 minutes   Froxxome
Sadie (#53422)                an hour      an hour      Between The Bedsheets
marcie (#53085)               2 hours      2 hours      marcie's
Cloister (#34107)             3 days       3 hours      Red Dwarf
Falryx (#26440)               8 hours      5 hours      LambdaMOO Museum (Misc.
Puff (#1449)                  16 hours     16 hours     The Foyer
Haakon (#2)                   2 days       22 hours     Lambda's Den
FourSixEightSixOne (#46861)   a day        22 hours     Cinder Pile
Zachary (#4670)               a day        a day        Zachary's Hangout
feh (#35841)                  a day        a day        Cinder Pile
raviv (#42513)                2 days       2 days       Raviv's place for the f


Total: 44 players, 29 of whom have been active recently.


(II)


Player name                   Connected    Idle time    Location
-----------                   ---------    ---------    --------
Vortex (#50457)               18 minutes   0 seconds    The Idea of Switzerland
Manchmal (#50503)             2 minutes    a second     The Hangout
Demian (#50389)               28 minutes   3 seconds    The Pits of Despair
Cpt.Vader (#50739)            an hour      3 seconds    Southeast of Crag [figh
little-wind-spirit (#39585)   47 seconds   4 seconds    Windy Riverside
Iccaru (#53466)               55 minutes   4 seconds    Dr.Sherry's Office
Zippy (#23517)                an hour      4 seconds    Event Lab (#23917)
Cable (#50066)                40 minutes   5 seconds    The Dav's room!!
Phylon (#53471)               an hour      5 seconds    The Dav's room!!
Dagard (#49807)               46 seconds   7 seconds    Dagard's Abode
ajia (#41630)                 23 minutes   7 seconds    Ajia's teahouse
Mole (#49801)                 8 minutes    14 seconds   Ajia's teahouse
Dav (#50183)                  a minute     17 seconds   The Dav's room!!
Sick (#41057)                 34 minutes   17 seconds   Ajia's teahouse
Kath (#53465)                 48 minutes   17 seconds   Kath's abode
Korvac (#34696)               an hour      17 seconds   The Serail
Beige_Guest (#5798)           5 hours      17 seconds   Ohio_State_Dorm
JaysHouseMOO (#52536)         20 hours     17 seconds   Orbiting LambdaMOO
Xandu (#52797)                22 minutes   34 seconds   Xandu's Underwater Real
Susan (#51259)                41 minutes   39 seconds   Secluded grove
LaTraviata (#50413)           16 minutes   46 seconds   The Serail
Storm (#50282)                an hour      46 seconds   The Dav's room!!
CardiffMOO (#49761)           11 hours     a minute     The Relay Room
JerseyGirl (#50239)           5 minutes    a minute     The waterbed
Fizban (#50357)               55 minutes   a minute     The Coat Closet
Denis (#43902)                3 hours      a minute     Ohio_State_Dorm
Opal (#49755)                 56 minutes   2 minutes    Blackbriar's Patch
A_Smile (#46432)              9 minutes    3 minutes    The Dav's room!!
Mack-the-Knife (#47551)       35 minutes   3 minutes    The Living Room
Blbrar (#30119)               28 minutes   4 minutes    Blackbriar's Patch
Guest (#5704)                 41 minutes   4 minutes    Stairwell (13th Sub-bas
Einstein (#36364)             10 minutes   5 minutes    Einstein's Lair of Exce
Rohan (#38904)                14 minutes   5 minutes    Stronghold
CyberFox (#50053)             22 minutes   6 minutes    Artemis
Booga (#634)                  55 minutes   17 minutes   The Living Room
Hagbard (#36271)              an hour      20 minutes   The Living Room
Froxx (#49853)                an hour      an hour      Froxxome
Sadie (#53422)                2 hours      2 hours      Between The Bedsheets
marcie (#53085)               3 hours      2 hours      marcie's
Cloister (#34107)             3 days       3 hours      Red Dwarf
Falryx (#26440)               9 hours      5 hours      LambdaMOO Museum (Misc.
Puff (#1449)                  17 hours     16 hours     The Foyer
Haakon (#2)                   2 days       22 hours     Lambda's Den
FourSixEightSixOne (#46861)   a day        22 hours     Cinder Pile
Zachary (#4670)               a day        a day        Zachary's Hangout
feh (#35841)                  a day        a day        Cinder Pile
raviv (#42513)                2 days       2 days       Raviv's place for the f


Total: 47 players, 31 of whom have been active recently.




**


SAT


(I)


Player name               Connected    Idle time    Location
-----------               ---------    ---------    --------
Sick (#41057)             2 hours      0 seconds    Ajia's teahouse
Psalty (#50091)           11 minutes   a second     Ajia's teahouse
Vortex (#50457)           15 minutes   a second     Ajia's teahouse
Ford_Prefect (#50296)     22 minutes   a second     Bistromath
Grump (#122)              5 minutes    4 seconds    The Possibly Happening plac
Shorty (#51697)           31 minutes   4 seconds    Ajia's teahouse
Greene (#49795)           3 hours      4 seconds    The Hangout
Fizban (#50357)           2 hours      7 seconds    The Castle of Spiritsong an
DejahThoris (#32334)      an hour      8 seconds    The Library
Korvac (#34696)           4 hours      8 seconds    Orb
Ethyreon (#49398)         15 minutes   12 seconds   Orb
Guest (#5704)             24 minutes   12 seconds   Ajia's teahouse
Dav (#50183)              4 minutes    14 seconds   Ajia's teahouse
Velouria (#49594)         57 minutes   14 seconds   The Possibly Happening plac
Xandu (#52797)            2 hours      14 seconds   LambdaMOO Survey Office
Gordo (#52080)            a minute     15 seconds   Ajia's teahouse
Denny (#43902)            2 hours      15 seconds   Ajia's teahouse
WhiteRabbit (#3685)       34 seconds   20 seconds   Bedroom (WhiteRabbit's hous
ajia (#41630)             49 minutes   20 seconds   Ajia's teahouse
Xandria (#45732)          an hour      20 seconds   The Castle of Spiritsong an
CardiffMOO (#49761)       5 hours      20 seconds   The Relay Room
Kyra (#50291)             2 minutes    25 seconds   Pool Parlour
Phylon (#53471)           an hour      27 seconds   Orb
Manchmal (#50503)         6 minutes    31 seconds   The Hangout
Mara (#50464)             6 hours      35 seconds   Mara's Room
Azariah (#51627)          2 minutes    38 seconds   Ajia's teahouse
Opal (#49755)             14 minutes   50 seconds   Briar's Den
Stigmata (#53507)         a minute     51 seconds   Zen
Mephisto (#53101)         3 minutes    53 seconds   Ajia's teahouse
Briar (#30119)            an hour      60 seconds   Briar's Den
Miles (#50636)            8 minutes    a minute     Oak Room [editing verbs]
Leigh-Cheri (#53476)      3 hours      a minute     Flight_Control
Claudette (#53106)        21 minutes   a minute     The Coat Closet
Yellow_Guest (#5743)      43 minutes   a minute     Ajia's teahouse
Iccaru (#53466)           an hour      a minute     Flight_Control
Count (#35076)            2 hours      a minute     Mara's Room
Euphistopheles (#50222)   an hour      a minute     Scrabble Board (18 points)
Moriah (#50459)           an hour      2 minutes    Scrabble Board (12 points)
ashes (#18502)            37 minutes   6 minutes    Porcupine Crematorium
Ben_Wymore (#44531)       22 hours     7 minutes    The Trivia Centre
Sioned (#45623)           9 minutes    9 minutes    Sioned's Fortress
Chaos (#6853)             36 minutes   28 minutes   Chaos' Flat
Zman (#23570)             2 hours      2 hours      Z-Room
Cloister (#34107)         5 hours      4 hours      Red Dwarf
marcie (#53085)           8 hours      8 hours      marcie's
Haakon (#2)               a day        a day        Lambda's Den


Total: 46 players, 38 of whom have been active recently.




**


satyrday


Player name             Connected    Idle time    Location
-----------             ---------    ---------    --------
Pkzip (#54099)          25 minutes   0 seconds    Cygnus' Bedroom
ThinkTankMOO (#58123)   11 hours     a second     Glass Bell Jar
Blackbriar (#30119)     7 minutes    2 seconds    Blackbriar's Patch [mailing]
Bewitch (#50272)        4 minutes    4 seconds    Mousike
Plaid_Guest (#32861)    8 minutes    4 seconds    The Living Room
Stranger (#56629)       23 minutes   4 seconds    A Strange Land
Alain (#56819)          37 minutes   4 seconds    A Strange Land [mailing]
Beany_Lobo (#56855)     an hour      4 seconds    Secluded grove [resting]
Azreela (#57466)        4 minutes    6 seconds    Xyphus' Copse [mailing]
Merman (#58251)         an hour      6 seconds    Makeshift Cave
Teddy (#39113)          2 hours      6 seconds    Mine Shaft
Agincourt (#57956)      3 hours      6 seconds    Pankey's Palace of Dreams
Jaffa (#57510)          7 minutes    7 seconds    The Living Room
Fingle (#58157)         11 minutes   7 seconds    The Living Room
Laurie (#53502)         15 minutes   7 seconds    Chateau
Kath (#53465)           an hour      7 seconds    The Living Room
Zarabeth (#57474)       40 minutes   10 seconds   The Coat Closet
Isagi (#21077)          26 minutes   12 seconds   Secluded grove
Vlad (#58286)           8 minutes    14 seconds   The Living Room
Pankey (#58201)         2 hours      15 seconds   Pankey's Palace of Dreams
Boulder (#50186)        7 minutes    22 seconds   The Living Room
Guest (#5704)           31 seconds   26 seconds   The Living Room
Moriah (#50459)         9 hours      28 seconds   Generic RPG Shop [editing]
CardiffMOO (#49761)     22 hours     45 seconds   Glass Bell Jar
JaysHouseMOO (#52536)   2 days       45 seconds   Orbiting LambdaMOO
Senuv* (#35404)         an hour      53 seconds   Secluded grove [resting]
Tower (#49916)          51 minutes   a minute     The Living Room
Zeppelin (#56377)       an hour      a minute     The Living Room
Womble (#55456)         3 hours      a minute     The Living Room
Count (#35076)          46 minutes   a minute     The Living Room
Red_Guest (#5707)       6 minutes    3 minutes    Makeshift Cave
SamIAm (#41011)         4 minutes    3 minutes    The Conversation Pit
Manticore (#53484)      an hour      10 minutes   The Living Room
Angie (#57014)          14 hours     17 minutes   Dominatrix's B&D Chamber
Freakster (#56294)      an hour      an hour      The Goat Closet
Cotton (#54104)         an hour      an hour      Cotton's bedroom
Eager (#58038)          an hour      an hour      The Entrance Hall
Hagbard (#36271)        2 hours      2 hours      Hag's [musing]
Cloister (#34107)       11 hours     7 hours      Red Dwarf
Shag (#49608)           10 hours     10 hours     ShagWorld
.. (#634)               16 hours     14 hours     Hole in the ground
dr (#7003)              17 hours     14 hours     The Underground
Michele (#50607)        a day        17 hours     Garret
Bushi (#56700)          20 hours     20 hours     The Coat Closet


Total: 44 players, 32 of whom have been active recently.




**


SUN


(I)


Player name                  Connected    Idle time    Location
-----------                  ---------    ---------    --------
Vortex (#50457)              19 minutes   0 seconds    Bovine Illuminati Dormit
Moriah (#50459)              3 hours      0 seconds    Breezy's
Queerboy (#35824)            21 minutes   2 seconds    The Living Room
Yonse-Erik (#50123)          an hour      2 seconds    Secluded grove
waffle (#9082)               7 minutes    5 seconds    Foyer (Nyssa's and Black
Dav (#50183)                 28 minutes   5 seconds    Breezy's
Euphistopheles (#50222)      2 hours      6 seconds    Foyer (Nyssa's and Black
Val (#50285)                 3 hours      6 seconds    Waterfall
Briar (#30119)               5 minutes    7 seconds    Briar's Den
Dagard (#49807)              51 minutes   7 seconds    Temple of Death [editing
Kath (#53465)                an hour      7 seconds    Kath's abode
Guest (#5704)                34 minutes   8 seconds    Cara's Place
Blue_Guest (#5720)           21 minutes   9 seconds    Kath's abode
Shadow_Hawke (#52777)        an hour      9 seconds    Somewhere, someplace
Joel (#50142)                an hour      10 seconds   Secluded grove
Jetta (#28847)               28 minutes   11 seconds   The Living Room
Bane (#50064)                2 hours      12 seconds   Stoddard Temple
Demian (#50389)              3 minutes    15 seconds   The Psychedelic Solution
Simone (#50217)              4 minutes    16 seconds   Simone's experiment
Gam-Bit (#50235)             30 minutes   17 seconds   Gam-Bit's
Leigh-Cheri (#53476)         57 minutes   17 seconds   Stoddard Temple
Marbles (#48810)             3 hours      17 seconds   Scrabble Board (51 point
Mara (#50464)                4 hours      17 seconds   Mara's Room
THM (#16097)                 3 hours      29 seconds   Scrabble Board (89 point
Chaos (#6853)                33 minutes   30 seconds   Morpheus' Study
Cara_Mia (#52486)            38 minutes   30 seconds   Cara's Place
Iccaru (#53466)              36 minutes   37 seconds   Breezy's
Sick (#41057)                an hour      42 seconds   The Living Room
Count (#35076)               11 hours     42 seconds   Mara's Room
Storm (#50282)               27 minutes   44 seconds   Waterfall
Buddy (#53503)               27 minutes   59 seconds   A Place for all friends!
CardiffMOO (#49761)          4 hours      59 seconds   The Relay Room
Justy_Shadowhawke (#50017)   2 hours      60 seconds   The Living Room
Jinx (#50135)                46 minutes   a minute     The World of Illusion
Manticore (#53484)           45 minutes   2 minutes    Hell
Opal (#49755)                4 minutes    3 minutes    Briar's Den
Rusty (#48961)               an hour      3 minutes    The Hot Tub Deck
Zippy (#23517)               an hour      4 minutes    Event Lab (#23917)
Fizban (#50357)              52 minutes   23 minutes   The Castle of Spiritsong
JaysHouseMOO (#52536)        13 hours     an hour      Orbiting LambdaMOO
Grump (#122)                 3 hours      2 hours      Teal room
Oisin (#53290)               2 hours      2 hours      Cafe Milano
Froxx (#49853)               3 hours      3 hours      Froxxome
Cloister (#34107)            a day        a day        Red Dwarf
marcie (#53085)              a day        a day        marcie's
Haakon (#2)                  a day        a day        Lambda's Den


Total: 46 players, 38 of whom have been active recently.




(II)


Player name               Connected    Idle time    Location
-----------               ---------    ---------    --------
Vortex (#50457)           41 minutes   0 seconds    1934 Buick
Cara_Mia (#52486)         an hour      0 seconds    Cara's Place
THM (#16097)              3 hours      0 seconds    Scrabble Board (146 points)
JaysHouseMOO (#52536)     13 hours     a second     Orbiting LambdaMOO
Sylvia (#50287)           7 minutes    2 seconds    Master Bedroom
Euphistopheles (#50222)   2 hours      2 seconds    Foyer (Nyssa's and Blackbri
LaughingMan (#50387)      11 minutes   4 seconds    Tibet's Stormy Coast
Wsk_Rumisk (#53499)       38 seconds   5 seconds    The Living Room
Joel (#50142)             an hour      5 seconds    Secluded grove
Moriah (#50459)           4 hours      6 seconds    Breezy's
Manticore (#53484)        an hour      8 seconds    Hackers' Heaven
Grump (#122)              3 hours      12 seconds   Teal room
Iccaru (#53466)           58 minutes   13 seconds   Foyer of Stormhaven
Sick (#41057)             an hour      15 seconds   1934 Buick
Rusty (#48961)            2 hours      15 seconds   1934 Buick
Yasmin (#50394)           6 minutes    20 seconds   The Russian Tea Room
Dav (#50183)              50 minutes   21 seconds   Breezy's
Guest (#5704)             57 minutes   21 seconds   Cara's Place
Calypso (#50099)          9 minutes    24 seconds   Calypso's Isle
CardiffMOO (#49761)       5 hours      24 seconds   The Relay Room
Bane (#50064)             2 hours      27 seconds   Stoddard Temple
Ashley (#51625)           3 minutes    28 seconds   KircAM 97.1 FM  -=< The Bes
Mara (#50464)             5 hours      28 seconds   Mara's Room
Yellow_Guest (#5743)      a minute     48 seconds   The Coat Closet [mailing]
Jetta (#28847)            50 minutes   50 seconds   1934 Buick
Demian (#50389)           26 minutes   a minute     The Psychedelic Solution
Chispa (#50042)           5 minutes    a minute     Forewarned Backroom
Leigh-Cheri (#53476)      an hour      a minute     Stoddard Temple
Marbles (#48810)          3 hours      a minute     Scrabble Board (145 points)
Briar (#30119)            28 minutes   a minute     Briar's Den
Ophelia (#50198)          a minute     a minute     Dungeon
Storm (#50282)            50 minutes   2 minutes    Waterfall
Val (#50285)              4 hours      2 minutes    Waterfall
Zippy (#23517)            an hour      3 minutes    Event Lab (#23917)
Havel (#49616)            14 minutes   3 minutes    The Library
Opal (#49755)             27 minutes   4 minutes    Briar's Den
Fizban (#50357)           an hour      10 minutes   The Castle of Spiritsong an
Buddy (#53503)            49 minutes   11 minutes   A Place for all friends!
Oisin (#53290)            3 hours      2 hours      Cafe Milano
Froxx (#49853)            3 hours      3 hours      Froxxome
Cloister (#34107)         a day        a day        Red Dwarf
marcie (#53085)           a day        a day        marcie's
Haakon (#2)               a day        a day        Lambda's Den


Total: 43 players, 36 of whom have been active recently.




**


Idea


18 messages on *Music (#37708):
  630:+ Jun 28 23:16   Raymond (#74077)       Skatali(ghts)(tes)
  631:+ Jul 14 00:49   LLrain (#59513)        New List
  632:+ Jul 14 10:58   Tobin (#27135)         mutant stuff
  633:+ Jul 15 04:39   Black_Francis (#50292)   (None.)
  634:+ Jul 15 15:07   Gowan (#76661)         Gigolo Aunts
  635:+ Jul 15 17:15   Booga (#634)           (None.)
  636:+ Jul 15 19:02   Ox (#54875)            Gigolo Aunts...They Rock!
  637:+ Jul 19 16:50   P7A77 (#53430)         WOXY in *CINCI*???
  638:+ Jul 19 17:21   Gilmore (#34435)       (None.)
  639:+ Jul 19 19:07   P7A77 (#53430)         Thpthpthptph...
  640:+ Jul 19 23:21   Gilmore (#34435)       (None.)
  641:+ Jul 19 23:30   Ox (#54875)            (None.)
  642:+ Jul 21 17:03   P7A77 (#53430)         Lollapalooza 1994
  643:+ Jul 21 19:48   Tobin (#27135)         lollapalooza
  644:+ Jul 21 21:57   Spoonman (#60015)      Not Lolla
  645:+ Jul 22 00:03   Gilmore (#34435)       (None.)
  646:+ Jul 22 15:59   P7A77 (#53430)         Smashing Pumpkins...
  647:+ Jul 25 23:20   Dr.Galazkiewicz (#86979)   ITEOTWAWKI Lyrics
-----+
