From: pmc@unity.ncsu.edu
Date: Fri, 11 Mar 94 01:59:22 EST

What follows is an edited transcript of a conversation focusing on
PMC-MOO @toad/@newt, spoofing, spamming, and general ettiquette.

The 'YOU' in all this is Barney.
---------------------------------

The Lab
You see a combination Laboratory, Locker Room, and Kitchen, with books,
bits of code, and somebody's socks strewn about the place. On the flagstone
floor you notice a big iron ring attached to a trap door that leads down, to
the Crypt of Generics. The lobby is up above you, and a steel door leads east.
Two or three wizards are sleeping around the room.
You see bleary's locker, key, Banishment Petition, bleary's complaint &
glinda's response, lag meter, and jgopher here.

You say, "As I see it, two problems are here."
You say, "one: establishing reliable evidence."
You say, "two, reliably toading for good."
You say, "I have *no* problem with toading those who harrass others."
You say, "spamming and spoofing should, I think, be capital offenses."
You say, "Comments so far?"
Daffy says, "spamming is hard to define, no?"
Bakunin agrees, mostly, doesn't see how `reliable toading for good' is
possible, though.
bleary says, "mmm."
You say, "is it?"
Daffy says, "how many lines does it take to piss someone off?"
You say, "well, bak...I have more ideas on that line than on the first
question."
You say, "automated harrassment is spamming."
Daffy nods.
You say, "ten lines or a hundred thousand."
You say, "we register each player, or multiples of a player, by email
address.."
You say, "we use trackdown to establish multiples."
You say, "when we toad someone, we look for multiples."
You say, "people can have more than one email address...."
You say, "but there's a limit to how many accounts one is likely to be able to
get."
You say, "three or four, I'd say."
bleary doesn't want to wage continual war.
Bakunin nods. Except for the determined, yes.
You say, "Right."
You say, "we don't wage war."
You say, "we just kick 'em off."
bleary says, "and should we punish those who make spamming verbs or
spoofing verbs as stringently as those who spam or spoof?"
You say, "and if they come back from another address and do the same, that
character gets kicked off."

Bakunin thinks we should have an entrance essay requirement.
bleary [to Bakunin]: i was thinking about that - grep it for keywords.
You say, "right."
You say, "get rid of the verbs, unilaterally."
You say, "no spamming, no spoofing."
Bakunin grins. If they don't mention discursive formations, they don't get in.
bleary would not be here in that case, but that's OK.

You say, "incidentally, I think we should agree that no one really has any
*rights* here, as regards the MOO management."
Daffy says, "true... welcome to pomo city."
You say, "people have the right to be left alone."
You say, "by one another..."
You say, "but let's get right past this "I have a right to express myself by
spamming you" bullshit."
bleary says, "not strong rights, but weak rights: we will try to protect your
privacy, your  freedom of speech, but we reserve the right not to."
You say, "Actually, bleary..."
You say, "do you know that distinction: strong vs. weak rights?"
Bakunin nods to bleary. The right not to be harassed, certainly. Except by
wizards, of course.
bleary says, "no.  i''m just talking."
You say, "it's a good point."
You say, "there's a diff. between what you have a right *to* (strong rights, if
you want)"
You say, "and what you have a right *not* to (weak rights)"
You say, "I'd say weak rights are the only ones here."
bleary says, "i was thinking weak rights more along the lines of: we're going
to try to give you these, but don't think they're self-evident or inalienable."
You say, "no ... think categories."
You say, "you have the right not to be disturbed..."
You say, "you don't have the right to gay-bait in the name of free speech."
You say, "for example."
You say, "weak rights always outweigh strong ones."
You say, "here in pomocity."
bleary nods.
You say, "divine non-interference..."
You say, "but back to the practicalities..."

You say, "how do we determine whether someone has been spamming or
spoofing?"
You say, "it's easy to write these verbs in a minute, then destroy them."
Bakunin says, "I imagine it would need be based on a complaint."
You say, "it's easy to fake evidence."
Bakunin says, "Why not dump the contents of @paranoid along with the
complaint/banish whatever?"
You say, "it's easy to spoof spamming, producing honest misunderstanding
and advocates for your corrupt cause..."
Bakunin says, "We can checksum it, or something."
bleary says, "we could implement @witness from lambda."
Daffy says, "how do other moos handle it?.....ah"
You say, "explain, Bleary?  "
bleary isnt' sure how that works.
You say, "ah.  What's its purpose?"
bleary says, "paranoid is wiz-owned, so players can't change it (i think), so
@witness just dumps @paranoid to another wiz-owned prop, saving the
(unfakable) evidence."
Bakunin nods. What he said.
bleary says, "i'm not sure on the details, though."
Bakunin doesn't seem like it could be faked easily.
You say, "that would be fine, I think.  Just a checkable log somewhere."
You say, "permissions are a major part of our solution, I think."
You say, "If we had a reliable check on who was doing what to whom, I
would have no problem with a one-warning-then-you-get-toaded system.
Anyone else?"
Bakunin says, "Opens up the possibility of toading someone because of a
disagreement."
You say, "life is too short for this bullshit...besides, there are MUDS for
these assholes."
You say, "that's the one warning, I think."
bleary says, "not really - if you're going to be a jackass about a tiffle, then
do it on Lambda."
Bakunin says, "What about consensus? Or is it gonna be `two strikes, yer
out?'"
You say, "and I think we ought to have a group of non-wizards..."
You say, "I do think we should have a whining penalty as well..."
You say, "non-wizards who review complaints."
Daffy takes out the weiner dog.
You say, "and weiner dogs who attach themselves to whiners."
Bakunin would prefer to see some sort of consensual-decision making
process rather than a review board, hmm. A board with executive powers?
You say, "the weiner dogs could say helpful things like "@refuse, @gag""
You say, "I like the banishment proposal, but I think the way it's set up it
takes too much consensus."
You say, "given the size of our moo, thirty people is a virtualy unanimous
vote."
You say, "and given its age...."
bleary thinks the idea of a board w/ executive is good.
You say, "anyway, I bet we could appoint a few level heads."
You say, "Heinrich, Tarquin would be good."
You say, "and Dorothy?  Hey, she's not here, so we can elect her..."
bleary says, "sure - and it'd set up some level of buffer between us and the
plebs, maybe they'd take some of the heat and pages, etc."
You say, "laughs"
Bakunin grins.
You say, "arf"
You say, "um..."
Bakunin . o O (a parole board?)
You say, "I think the weiner dogs are important tools here..."
Bakunin reports to his prole officer.
Daffy laughs
You say, "We don't want to end up with a hundred pre-schoolers..."
You say, "he hit me!"
You say, "he bit me!"
Bakunin says, "We already have."
Daffy . o O (or a hundred weiner dogs)
You say, "agreed..."
You say, "So daffman, you have a weiner dog ready to go?"
Daffy says, "no, just like the idea"
You say, "it's yours."
Daffy . o O (great.... :))
You say, "Bak, can you talk to dorothy about putting together a very small
group with tarquin, heinrich and whomever else?  Here's one now...hang on."

----------------------------------bleary-----------------------------------
bleary quotes form the @witness petition/ballot/law
The @witness command would automatically take a 50-line log of the
ensuing conversation, keeping full stack traces as the @paranoid command
does.  When the 50 lines are used, @witness notifies the user and stores the
stack traces in a wizard-database.

Each user may keep up to 6 logs in this database.  Each user may choose to
"publish" a log to an accompanying mailing list, sending a copy of the text
seen by the user to a wizard-owned mailing list with a pointer back to the
entry in the database (now publically available for examination of the stack
traces).  Published logs are not counted against the 6-log limit.

Optional:  if feasible to implement, backing up the log by ten lines after
entered would allow a player to "witness" something just seen.
----------------------------------bleary-----------------------------------

oura teleports in.

[hellos, quacks, barks and yawns]

You say, "well, the @witness stuff seems awfully involved."
You say, "not yet, oura.  here's where we are, I think."
You say, "We need three things."
You say, "a good way to log what goes on, spoof-proof."
You say, "so we have a record to refer to in disputes."
oura says, "you want to log all?"
You say, "a group of non-wizards to adjudicate these disputes, when they
arise."
You say, "potentially, sure."
You say, "and third..."
Bakunin really thinks culling the $paranoid_db would work pretty well.
You say, "a clear rule..."
You say, "no spamming, no spoofing.  "
bleary says, "no spying."
You say, "one warning and you're toaded."
bleary [to Bakunin]: what do you mean?
You say, "spying is another thing, I think."
You say, "spying is a weak right..."
Bakunin says, "We should add `silent entry' warning to $room, maybe."
You say, "privacy is a strong one."
You say, "weak rights win?"
oura says, "how can there be privacy if you record everything....?"
You say, "of course, there can't."
You say, "but..."
You say, "in point of fact, there's no privacy on the MOO anyway."
oura nods
You say, "it's all logged somewhere, and anyone who wants to and has wiz
bits can find it."

Bakunin [to bleary]: I meant, as opposed to implementing @witness.
bleary wonders about Dot.
oura says, "what about him"
Daffy . o O (where is that good witch?)
You say, "not that dot, oura."
bleary says, "so do we think @witness is a good idea?"
You say, "Alright...to conclusion."
You say, "I think logging is a good idea...simplest way is best."
You say, "changing the perms on @paraonid and funneling it all to a wiz-only
log file is fine."
You say, "we got disk space to burn, in any case."
Daffy says, "is @witness automagic?  Without being turned on?"
bleary [to Barney]: how much mem does thins box have?
bleary [to Daffy]: not on lambda.
You say, "64Meg ram, 1.2 gig HD at the moment..."
Daffy mms... "DO we want to make it voluntary--to keep the 'privacy' freaks
happy.
You say, "nope."
Daffy says, "make it like @paranoid?"
oura says, "would that make sense?"
bleary [to Barney]: plenty.
Daffy mms

Heinrich has arrived.
You say, "Heinrich..."
You say, "Would you be willing..."
bleary says, "i see @witness as above and beyond @paranoid, since it implies
something fishy is going on, rather than just wanting to know what's
happening."
Heinrich says, "Yup?"
Daffy [to bleary]: ya
You say, "to work with Tarquin and possibly the absent Dorothy"
Heinrich says, "On what, praytell?"
You say, "to review disputes, if we put in place strong measures to
discourage assholism."
Heinrich says, "Sure."
Heinrich says, "And I'll even be nice."
Heinrich giggles.
You say, "can you be cool in the head?"
Daffy reminds Heinrich that we have no 12 step plans here. :)
Heinrich just gets hot for the amusement of it
Heinrich says, "It's all Byronic fellas"
You say, "even with people who piss you off?  Flameproof?"
Heinrich laughs and laughs
Daffy holds a torch to Heinrich.
You say, "it's important..."
Heinrich nods as his will keep Byron to the side
You say, "not to get lit too easily."
Heinrich says, "I'll keep the irnoy underwraps"
Heinrich says, "I've only got mad once when they were pickin' on bleary"
You say, "oh, irony is fine, no problem.  Ridicule to the max, in fact."
Heinrich says, "Everything else has been tongue in cheek."
You say, "but vindictiveness, no good."
Heinrich giggles
Heinrich laughs in RL

oura says, "is there a situation at hand that needs adjudication now, or are
you discussing prev. measures right now?"
oura came in late, sorry
You say, "a lotta shit lately, oura."
Heinrich does his best Boy Scout salute to all the wizs
You say, "spamming, juvenile stuff..."
bleary [to Barney]: speaking of which....
Daffy was an Eagle before he became a duck.
You say, "shoot, blear."
bleary [to Barney]: who do we settle the sedate matter?
bleary feels bad for starting the 'matter'
You say, "well, strip him of spamming and spoofing verbs...tell him the rules,
and take him out of exile."
You say, "if he fucks up, twice, out he goes."
Heinrich says, "Isn't he out of exile?"
Daffy says, "not the original sedate"
You say, "if he comes back from other email addresses and fucks up twice
more, out he goes again."
Heinrich notes that the Sedate character has been logging in
You say, "indeed, daff."
bleary nopes.
You say, "he's got more than one char."
Heinrich says, "But the orignial Sedate has loggin in recently"
Daffy says, "so, it's a 2-fuck up per player? Or per person?  "
bleary [to Heinrich]: noHeinrich says, "Feb 18"
You say, "two per person, if we know who all their players are."
bleary [to Heinrich]: he can connect oh-so-briefly.
You say, "two per player if we don't."
Daffy nods
Heinrich nods
You say, "peple can have more than one email account."
Daffy [to bleary]: how many ticks does it take to @boot a player?
You say, "but they can't have an infinite number of accounts."
oura says, "and prolly all from same site"
bleary [to Daffy]: in sedate's case? 4 or 5.
You say, "this system we're discussing depends on a couple things"
You say, "no vindictiveness on the part of the small number of people who
will adjudicate..."
You say, "and very clear rules."
Heinrich promises to be fair
You say, "simple rules, just one or two."
Heinrich says, "Scouts honor or you can @toad me"
bleary . o O (no spamming, no spoofing, no exceptions.)
You say, "but spamming and spoofing are out."
You say, "new policy, universally announced and enforced."
You say, "no need to consult or warn on that one:"
You say, "any verb that looks spammy or spoofy, erase it."
bleary says, "how about shouts?"
Heinrich says, "Why not make all player classes spoof-proff?"
You say, "first and scond warning is for harrassment....actually, no second
warning."
bleary says, "or spying?"
Bakunin . o O (RL, sorry.)
You say, "spying is diff, I think."
Bakunin scrolls back and catches up.
You say, "shouts should be limited to wizards."
bleary [to Heinrich]: pretty impossible
You say, "junk mail....."
Heinrich [to bleary]: Does lambda have a spoof-proof player class?
You say, "agreed, bleary.  Wizards will have to do some maintenance...."
bleary says, "spam-proof maybe.  spoof-proof is not really feasable."
You say, "I'll be happy to hunt down multiple players of problem cases..."
You say, "and I'll be happy to rub out problem verbs..."
bleary hears the tolling of the Lobby, clock, must hurry to bed before his
gown turns back to rags.
You say, "but I think it would be a good idea to have non-wizards, but
venerable PMC-MOOers, in charge of complaints."
You say, "Right, bleary...off to bed with you."
You say, "Thanks for coming in.  You're a saint."
Bakunin says, "g'night, bleary."
bleary says, "send me moomail, lemme know whats going on."
oura waves bleary
Heinrich smiles and waves to bleary
Daffy flaps
bleary has disconnected.

You say, ""bak..."
You say, "you've been pretty quiet."
You say, "you think all this is too arbitrary?"
Bakunin doesn't think there's any reasonable way to prevent spoofing,
either, 'cept by having an authorized list of people who can call your tell
verb.
You say, "I think some of this just has to be done by hand."
glinda arrives.
glinda hi's.
You say, "and I think..hey there!"
Heinrich says, "Is there a way to accurately @check or whatever spoof?"
Bakunin [to Barney]: Sorry, I hadda give my cat some beta-blocker. No, I
scrolled back and read it all. It _is_ arbitrary, but I'm as sick of this as
everyone else and think something needs to be done, and am willing to go
along with even arbitrary measures.
You say, "wizards should do the things that wiz-perms are needed for."
You say, "and others could others."
You say, "a brief review?"
You say, "here is what we've got so far..."
You say, "I think."
You say, "no spamming"
You say, "no spoofing"
You say, "one warning only"
Bakunin [to Heinrich]: Yes, the @check command used $paranoid_db, which
isn't easily hackable. Not a preventive mechanism, but, um, reliable.
You say, "ditto bak on how we keep a record that is spoofproof, for dispute
resolution."
Bakunin says, "This still necessitates wizardly intervention."
Heinrich [to Bakunin]: But, for instance, there is now a spoof verb here that
the @check only goes to the verb owner not the spoofer
You say, "a group of non-wizards to oversee same..."
You say, "Heinrich, Tarquin...others?"
Bakunin amends that to: the intervention of a specific class of players.
You say, "Dorothy might chair that group?  "
Bakunin [to Heinrich]: Oh, you're right.
glinda is a bit confused... chair a group that over sees  me?
You say, "wizards unilaterally destroy verbs that look spmmy or spoofy."
Bakunin [to Heinrich]: We'll have to check callers(), I guess.
Heinrich nods to Bakunin
You say, "no, the heinrich et al group is for settling cases...."
glinda [to Barney]: and I chair that group?
You say, "looking at logs, applying the one-warning rule."
Bakunin . o O (If we all chair a group, we'll wind up with a dinette set.)
You say, "I think one of us needs to be involved, though not necessarily
formally."
Heinrich giggles about the dinette
You say, "shout is another one... just get rid of these junk mail verbs."
glinda will need a flame retardant ball gown.
You say, "multiple players are OK..."
glinda [to Barney]: why?
Daffy says, "and fax verbs, if they give you rolled-up paper"
You say, "but we need email addresses for all...."
glinda [to Barney]: I say, as we spoke of ages ago, two characters per player.
You say, "use trackdown when you have a problem and toad someone."
You say, "Two is plenty, sure."
Bakunin gestures vaguely at a consensus mechanism that doesn't necessarily
require lots of votes. Has that idea been rejected for sure? Why have an elite
group at all to serve as an executive? Or does that implicitly leave room for
mediation?
You say, "but this will be difficult to enforce."
You say, "no, bak..."
glinda [to Bakunin]: nope not at all, not rejected.
You say, "mediation is important but time-consuming."
Bakunin nods re: time consuming.
You say, "group action is comfortable but inexact."
glinda note that she was recommended to consume said time.
Heinrich wonders if can put mediation on his CV with a letter from Barney
oura cfs LambdaFiasco
Heinrich smiles
You say, "well, dear, you got here late..."
Barney laughs
glinda [to Barney]: hardly!
You say, "EST?"
glinda refers barn to the *wiz list
Barney bows, willingly, to glinda
glinda oopses... I mean i've been putting in my time, that's all.
You say, "so aneewaze..."
glinda [to all]: and I'd like to continue with bak's line of questioning about
the necessity for elite group mediations...
You say, "we need, for our sanity, to find a line between the arbitrary and
the endless."
glinda notes, unless that is rehashing some in depth discussion i missed in
five  minutes i was waiting for a terminal.
glinda [to Barney]: huh? re: what, exactly...
You say, "arbitrary decisions are quick and seem efficient..."
You say, "sensitive mediateio"
glinda ahs, yes. I think what we are actually describing the need for is
consistent mechanisms.
You say, "sensitive mediation is nicer but takes forever and doesn't always
deal with probs."
You say, "right."
glinda gestures again to bak's proposal.
You say, "well, seems to me that 30 is too many."
Daffy says, "then 20, 15?"
You say, "and a year is too long...but if we can scale it to fit..."
glinda nods...
You say, "the only problem it would have is the ease with which one can
spoof one's way to a crowd of angry witnesses."
Daffy thinks the demobanishment would work... but has the ...RIghto
You say, "I think there's some of that going on already, in the mail we've
been reading."
You say, "ashley, for instance."
glinda [to Barney]: SOME! yes, some, I'd say.
You say, "we need a spoof-proof database..."
You say, "and a couple of people with permission to review it, in difficult
cases."
You say, "we can get rid of a lot of those cases by banning spamming and
spoofing verbs."
You say, "and unilateral wizactions on those are fine."
glinda [to Barney]: yes... I 'd agree.
oura says, "would it not work for committees to be ad hoc more like juries,
with a chair selected from the ppl you've been nominating ...?"
glinda wonders who oura is, btw.
You say, "we can have a bak-mechanism to bring cases to the small group,
how about."
You say, "Oura is OK , though new to PMC-MOO."
Heinrich wonders what the bak mech is, btw.
oura says, "what are there secrets being told or something?"
You say, "I mean a kind of banishment mechanism."
glinda only meant to say she had not been introduced...
You say, "ten votes, and the case goes to court."
Heinrich introduces oura and glinda
oura curtseys to glinda
glinda yikes court.
Bakunin says, "Sorry, eek. I'm back again. Kitty trouble."
You say, "court reviews the db..."
Heinrich says, "Ahhh, on the mech."
You say, "etc. etc."
You say, "hi bak...drug that cat."
Daffy says, "or better (worse?)"
Heinrich says, "So this isn't vulgar one character-one vote stuff, eh?"
You say, "well, not court.  Kangaroo court."
glinda says, "MOOt court."
You say, "no, of course not!"
glinda shakes head...
You say, "what a silly idea."
You say, "look the point is.."
Bakunin missed this part. Why court?
Heinrich will Gunierize on any voting things
You say, "we have two kinds of problems here..."
You say, "people who are assholes, and people who whine about people who
are assholes."
You say, "so to speak."
Heinrich thinks they are the same
You say, "I think we none of us have time for either type, really."
Heinrich shrugs
Heinrich laughs
Bakunin . o O (toady went a-courtin...)
You say, "what's the point, in any case?  "
You say, "why are we here?  Why is pmc-moo here?"
You say, "to be a perfect society?  Nope."
glinda . o O (dee diddle dee dum day)
glinda make a vulgar interve
Bakunin laughs.
Bakunin . o O (the vulgarian connection: kill de pope.)
glinda [to all]: I think barney that that attitude is precisely related to the
fuckyou fests we experience here.
You say, "actually, I disagree."
oura says, "which attitude?"
You say, "I think the fuckyou fests are the result of people taking advantage
of the absence of rules."
Heinrich [to oura]: Read the last 200 posts to *theory
Bakunin says, "Well, I kinda agree. The `user-unfriendly' stance we built
upon has trickled down."
glinda clarifies, the attitude initially set up by the genderfuck codes and
then recalled by the login_welcome_message that seemed to say that
everyone was under surveillance.
You say, "I don't think most people here really want to mess with one
another."
Bakunin mixes metaphors.
glinda [to Barney]: I would agree, except that LOTS of moos have few rules...
You say, "I think our time is disproportionately consumed by a few..."
You say, "and have no probs?"
glinda adds, that indeed most moos are organized around unstated
assumptions..
Daffy says, "most people here would rather build a room and never come
out."
glinda [to Barney]: of course not, but not these kinds of problems perhaps...
You say, "well, we moved the MOO once and changed some rules for a single,
simple reason..."
You say, "harrassment."
You say, "I don't want people to come here and get harrassed."
glinda dittos, obviously.
You say, "I'm not, nor are you all, running this thing for that purpose."
Daffy nods and nods
oura says, "of course not, but it is a side effect not entirely avoidable...?"
You say, "no one owes anyone anything here: you all are donating lots of
time and energy to this place, and I trust your judgement."
Heinrich . o O ( Part of the problem is anti-intellectual understandings of
pomos as negative freedom, and negative freedom only )
You say, "If sedate is a butthead, then get rid of him."
You say, "if others do the same, ditto."
You say, "I don't have a problem with this.  THey know what they are doing."
oura is skeptical, but doesn't know the situation at hand
You say, "I'm entirely with bleary on the toading of sedate, and I think
others who behave the same way should simply be booted."
Daffy thinks we should visit as guests more often
You say, "it's too much trouble."
You say, "good idea."
glinda has already recommended that both sedate and his alias set notation
be @toaded.
You say, "shall we do it, then?"

Bakunin [to Barney]: It's the `getting rid of' mechanism we're trying to
formulate, isn't it? I have no problem with a means of removing abusive
players, but I am interested in exploring how the society here to some extent
constitutes it (I've not seen terrorists anywhere else), and how to avoid
encouraging such an influx of players.
You say, "actually, my own regrets run in the direction of not being able to
tap into that terrorist energy in some way..."
Heinrich suggests again that part of the problem is, Hein's humble opinion,
the name of the MOO as pomo . . .
You say, "sure."
Heinrich says, "And the understanding of Pomo as negative freedom"
You say, "but what the hey..."
glinda [to all]: to follow up on bak's comment:
You say, "we shall change the name to ArbitraryAndCapriciousMOO"
You say, "and then all will be well."
Heinrich [to barny]: Well, that's the vulgar understning of Pomo
oura says, "it seems, kinda like glinda was saying, that moos themselves get
perceived as based on negative freedom, as instances themselves of "pomo"
and that the prob isnt unique here..."
You hear what sounds like loud conversation coming from the lobby.
Heinrich [to Barney]: I'm trying to point out that we've kiddies here who
haven't thought more than 20 seconds about pomo
glinda [to all]: I recommend that we @toad sedate and set notation because
there is at present no other mechanism in place. AND then immediately
impliment @banishment. It is unfeasible, it seems to me, to wait for
banishment to be put in place as lots of players have lamented our inaction.
You say, "removing genderfuck from PMC-MOO is in line with a general
policy that says you have the right not to be fucked with..."
You say, "agreed, glinda."
Daffy nods
glinda [to all]: and I think we need very much to make a public statement to
this effect.
Heinrich says, "could sedate be appealed to one more time?"
You say, "and the right *not* to is the one we want to focus on."
You say, "he's had his chance."
You say, "and more."
Heinrich says, "or has he done things I don't know about?"
Heinrich nods
glinda [to Heinrich]: yes
Daffy says, "most likely"
>@toad sedate
Sedate(#2803) is now a toad.
...#2
...#70
Heinrich says, "Well, i trust I don't need to know"
Heinrich smiels
Bakunin says, "So, um... We don't want to spend our time policing behavior,
do we? How can we `tap into' that energy? It inherently avoids the kind of
ruling apparatus we represent, dunnit? You wanna tap into it, take as much
as possible out of the wizardly realms. If we want to be pomo, let's illustrate
how power is distributed."
*Site-Locks (#70) has just been sent new mail by Barney (#74).
You say, "well, it *is* a problem, bak."
Bakunin [to glinda]: Well said, I agree.
You say, "I actually don't, necessarily, want to be pomo...and here's a hobby
horse."
You say, "if you're a medievalist, you are not expected to be medieval..."
You say, "if you're a romanticist, you don't have to be romantic..."
glinda [to Barney]: I *really* think that there is something to the idea that
people fuck back when they feel fucked over. The genealogy of MOO is
unavoidable and involves a bit of rampant rampaging. But the hostility, i
think this comes from folks not knowing how power is likely to be used
against them.
You say, "just because I'm interested in postmodernism, donesn't mean I'm
in favor of all things ostensibly postmodern."
You say, "glinda..."
You say, "it so quickly degenerates into tit for tat..."
glinda adds, thus, I agree with bak that the way to "harness" the energy of
the terrorists is to quite (seeming to) terrorize them, structurally speaking.
Heinrich says, "Well, pomo ain't about negative freedom--so fuckin' shut
down this kiddie bullshit about being able to do whatever."
You say, "and the weak losing to the strong or the determined."
glinda [to Barney]: I disagree.
You say, "hmm."
Bakunin [to Barney]: But, degenerates from _what_?
You say, "well, degenerates from whatever people came here for."
You say, "For example..."
Bakunin . o O (throws in origins, since we're not being pomo.)
glinda . o O (gets original)
You say, "I spent a busy night protecting a group of writers, newbies on the
moo..."
You say, "from spamming and harrassment on the part of neanderthal
teens..."
You say, "women writers, guy teens...."
oura says, "mebbe you should card at the door"
You say, "I'm much more interested in being of use to the former than the
latter."
You say, "frankly, there are other places (oura knows) for the guys to go to
work out what ails them."
oura rolls her eyes
You say, "I don't feel guilty about not being that place for those guys."
You say, "I do feel bad about not being able to offer something more serious
to people whose work/speech/time is more important to me."
glinda [to Barney]: I've a suggestion, another vulgar intervention.
You say, "goferit."
glinda changes her mind...
You say, "well, whatever.  I'm serious about that last part.  "
glinda was going to say something like... we have done -- structurally
speaking --- two contradictory things:
You say, "which are?"
glinda says, "on the one hand, we have tended to deploy the notion of pomo
as a rather rigid thematics,... "
glinda says, "yet, on the other hand, we have said "any thing goes" in a
certain sense.."
glinda adds yet another hand, YET, anything clearly doesn't go...
You say, "well, thematically, there's a lot here that ain't pomo."
Barney snuffs an elf or two
Daffy grins
oura says, "I hope I'm not out of place to say this, but even tho you don't
wanna pander to B&B...."
glinda nods, all I am again saying is that we think seriously about how it is
that we have actually structured in the responses that we are getting.
You say, "agreed, glinda, but I don't think we are entirely responsible
either..  B&B, Oura?"
glinda [to Barney]: of course that is not what I am saying.
oura says, "beavis and butthead, the teenguys you were talking about"
You say, "ah."
You say, "to you both."
oura says, "even though you dont want to protect that behaviour, it seems
like the sort of punishment you're meting out is not in keeping with the kind
of community you say you want"
You say, "no, we're not responsible for B&B, but we are responsible .....for
other things."
You say, "I think back to Michael Joyce's visit..."
You say, "came with his class on Pomo from Vassar..."
Bakunin says, "But we sit in a responsible position, at the top (as it were) of
an extemely problematic social situation. It's useful to explore our role in
constituting it, and useful to consider non-arbitrary (as much as possible)
ways to counter it, otherwise we'll just foment more of the same."
You say, "he's trying despearately to talk about transsgression..."
Bakunin [to Barney]: That visit was excruciating.
You say, "and forty people are farting."
You say, "it was terribly funny and to the point somehow."
Heinrich giggles
glinda [to Barney]: Its about clarity and consistency which doesn't mean clear
and consistent wizards -- althought that would be nice -- but is about clarity
and consistency of design, praxis.
glinda . o O (sounds perfect actually, re: transgression)
You say, "righto, glinda."
You say, "but..."
You say, "I'm inclined to think that the structure should protect the novice."
Daffy says, "we did tell everyone that: repeated nuisance behavior will cost
you your player."
You say, "This is important."
glinda [to Barney]: then its IRT chat.
glinda [to Barney]: but I agree, actually, yes.
You say, "It's more than that, in any case."
You say, "then we're into liberal politics..."
You say, "protect the weak..."
You say, "a welfare state, etc. etc."
You say, "so we get on into these discussions about wouldn't it be nice to
have a tame terrorist..."
You say, "or a terrorized terrorist..."
glinda hms barn's genealogy of the liberal tradition...
You say, "but actually, I think it may be just a pain."
You say, "depends on what we're for, I guess."
glinda adds, actually, we got on this topic in asking what kind of society
produces terroriests.
You say, "actual terrorists?"
You say, "ineffectively repressive societies."
glinda clarifies, what kind of MOO society produces MOO terrorist. This is the
intersting question i think sedate smack etc. pose.
Bakunin says, "Um, a totalitarian one."
You say, "ditto."
Heinrich thinks Barn has been listening to too much Rush as he equates
liberal and welfare so swiftly
Bakunin lags.
glinda nods bakunin.
You say, "well, never actually heard Rush, and despise him of course..."
Heinrich laughs and hoped someone would laughs at that bad joke
Heinrich shrugs
You say, "but my point is that I want to protect the weak, but I hate the
whining."
glinda says, "thus, I think its crucial that we reduce the verisimilitude
betwen this MOO and totalitarian state."
You say, "reduce or enlarge?"
glinda protects the weak here every fucking day.
You say, "indeed."
oura says, "been sounding like you wanna enlarge it..."
You say, "and it's a lot of work, isn't it?"
You say, "for what..."
You say, "to protect the right of some bozos to spam?"
Bakunin says, "It is if we keep all the juridical/executive power to
ourselves."
You say, "I can't see it somehow."
glinda [to Barney]: it is alot of work to protect the weak in an environment
which induces folks to spam, etc. Yes. yes yes, bakunin.
oura says, "isnt simple spamming a different case than harassment?"
You say, "agreed. let's give it up to the community, by all means, seriously."
glinda [to Barney]: I'm suggesting, now in about the fourth incarnation, that
your inability to see the connetion between the way we weild power and the
way other folks weild power here *is* a central problem in the design of this
moo.
You say, "but I think we need fewer than thirty votes and less than a year to
qualify."
You say, "I don't wield it...that's the most problem here."
glinda OH MY GODS!
You say, "you all can do whatever you want, you know."
glinda really doesn't know what to say next.
Bakunin says, "Of course you (and we) wield power. Where else does it
reside? I mean, in terms of design/praxis."
You say, "I don't think I've ever gainsayed...and I understand the value of
what you do."
You say, "you keep the place going."
You say, "you have the right to make it move one way or another."
glinda [to Barney]: that  is not what I'm oh my godding, actually...
glinda [to Barney]: reread, if you will, my last longish comment. as that was
my best effort at saying somehting I really have thought a lot about
You say, "well, I think..."
You say, "I stand by what I just said:"
glinda says, "ok. "
You say, "I set the thing running, and I haven't had enough time to moderate
and make it go."
You say, "not being around..."
glinda says, "if by that you mean, yes, not being around, i agree that is a
prob. "
You say, "I'm not as qualified as most of you are to say what's what here."
You say, "I have my opinions, but I'm willing to bow to any old vote of you
all."
You say, "and I think part of the prob..."
glinda has been extremely unqualified. is expressing opinions.
Bakunin hasn't been around much either, and is doing the same.
You say, "The real probl we see here, is the victimized getting fed up with
the lack of authority."
You say, "seems a shame, really."
Daffy nods.
You say, "t's not that hard to deal with."
Bakunin says, "Okay. So the best way to help people be less victimized is to,
um, empower them, right? Setting aside for a moment the problematic
nature of top-down empowerment."
glinda oks, shrugs, is visibly disappointed.
Bakunin says, "The problem _isn't_ lack of authority, I don't think."
oura comforts glinda
You say, "sorry, glinda."
glinda dittos again and again bak's point.
glinda [to Barney]: you are just not thinking in a very complicated way,
finally.
You say, "fine: explain to me how our problem is the result of too much
authority."
glinda has been doing that from the beginning.
You say, "explain how our complicated ideas about empowerment and
freedom..."
You say, "will assist the person who doesn't know from @refuse."
glinda repeats, that we have not implimented a single complicated idea that
undermines the de facto privilege of wizard rule.
You say, "and why should expertise, finally, be the thing that gives you the
right to communicate here."
Bakunin [to Barney]: I really do believe, with glinda, that the genderfuck
helped constitute the fuck-with-everything attitude here. Our _ideas_ about
empowerment and freedom are complicated, but not the implementation.
glinda says, "and we have implemented lots of other kinds of mechanisms
that seem to do the exact opposite, ... "
You say, "we dismantled the one idea we had about that..."
Bakunin [to glinda]: Oops, what you said.
glinda [to Bakunin]: no what you said
Bakunin [to Barney]: We don't want to be police, do we? I don't.
Bakunin grins at glinda.
glinda is living virtual proof that expertise is not the final say in this MOO,
btw.
oura says, "that fact that bakunin points out -- that your ideas are
complicated but not implementation -- is the cause of the seeming
contradiction
glinda's pointing out, isnt it?"
glinda [to oura]: yes yes yes yes yes
You say, "I don't either, of course...but I don't want a lot of interesting
possiblities to go down the toilet so that someone can go
HAHAHAHAHAHAHAH a million times against some person he thinks is gay."
Bakunin [to Barney]: We all agree about that, absolutely.
glinda says, "neither do 'the people'"
glinda smiles... waves a little flag. salutes.
You say, "fine, and I'm happy to have the proles etc. etc. "
You say, "but at some point, there is a practical issue."
Bakunin hums the International (house of pancakes).
You say, "wiz perms..."
glinda nods the practical.
You say, "you gonna let everyone look at the logs?"
You say, "or just not keep any?"
You say, "without logs, it's a guessing game."
Bakunin points shyly at the banishment petition again, that someone nicely
ported over. Look, Ma. Built-in wiz-perms.
glinda smiles...
Bakunin says, "You want to build a case to convince other people to banish,
you publish the relvant segment of the $paranoid_db (@check)."
You say, "yes, but....how do we know spoofing isn't at issue."
You say, "you being who?  a wiz?"
Bakunin [to Barney]: Because only wiz-verbs can write into $paranoid_db.
Bakunin says, "No, whomever casts the first @banish."
You say, "fine.  I'm in favor, really. "
Bakunin says, "Or subsequent ones."
You say, "I don't want to make us into police, and I know we don't all want
to deal with it."
You say, "but we came here tonight because we know there's a problem..."
You say, "and the problem is not an excess of freedom, I think."
Bakunin says, "The problem is a lack of recourse."
You say, "the problem is that the moocode itself inherently enables abusive
behavior, if one wants to abuse its potential."
Bakunin says, "It's very open, it's true. Anyone can call player:tell. "
You say, "a lack of recourse, right.  But also more than the required benefit
of the doubt, I think."
You say, "the banishment thing takes care of that."
You say, "and it distributes power."
You say, "and that's fine."
Bakunin [to Barney]: but..?
You say, "we will also need, at some point, a means of appeal from that
mechanism."
You say, "sure as shootin'"
You say, "so perhaps that's our wizards?"
You say, "also..."
You see a faint shimmering force wrapping itself around Daffy and hugging
him warmly...
Then the shimmering force dissipates slowly and silently...
You say, "in your description of banishment..."
You say, "you say that spamming and dumb weapons stuff is not grounds."
You say, "but that leaves out most all of what people are now complaining
about here."
You say, "If I followed your rules, it wouldn't solve our problem."
Bakunin says, "Why shouldn't that be addressed with @gag and @refuse?"
You say, "the newbie issue."
You say, "why should one be expected to be able to protect oneself here?"
oura says, "well *some* responsibility should lie with them"
You say, "we have a choice there."
Bakunin says, "One has to, everywhere."
You say, "nonsense, frankly."
glinda [to Bakunin]: .. well. I don't think that is the point.
Bakunin says, "And 100 HAHAHAs maybe should be grounds for @banish. On
Lambda, well..."
You say, "this is an arbitrary universe we're setting up here..."
Bakunin [to glinda]: yeah, I was being facile.
Daffy laughs
glinda [to Barney]: clarify please?
glinda wonders if, for example, $note sometimes is $thing?
glinda thinks not.
Bakunin says, "We give them banish, they can use it as they see fit. But, um...
How is @banish any easier to learn about, for newbies, than @gag or
@refuse?"
You say, "right, it's not."
You say, "the point is...I think (just me, mind you)"
You say, "that being harrassed ought not be part of visiting PMC-MOO."
You say, "that's what the current policy statement does already say"
You say, "and I think all this is about who will enforce that, and how."
glinda nods, yes...
You say, "no one wants to wield the billy..."
You say, "so distribute it, that's fine: but we don't escape anything by doing
that."
glinda [to Bakunin]: hey, bak. Are you suggesting the @banish deals with any
and all social problems.?
You say, "We still have to set the policy for @banish."
oura says, "in the grubbier realms, there is a burden on the newbie to
protect her/himself"
oura says, "precisely because they are all about power in the raw"
Bakunin [to glinda]: Oh, yes. definitely.
Bakunin phhbts.
glinda [to Bakunin]: for example, if spoof is disallowed are wizards not to
strip spoof verbs etc.
You say, "sure, oura.  but we backed off of object lessons at that level, I
think."
Bakunin [to glinda]: I dunno, I was wondering that. I think arbitrary wizard
actions are another realm entirely. Undefined now.
oura says, "well it all sounds very fascistic here"
oura is tired and is going to leave
You say, "I continue to think that wizards should have the right to
unilaterally blow away harrassment verbs."
oura says, "thanks for inviting me Barney"
You say, "bye, then."
You say, "um..."
oura says, "it was interesting.  nice to meet you all -- you are frighteningly
articulate, glinda"
oura smiles at glinda
glinda [to Bakunin]: that is what i'm trying to define. @banishment is not
undermined by wizard acting according to clarified policies.
oura has disconnected.

You say, "banishment is the removal of a player..."
Bakunin [to glinda]: No, I agree, it isn't. It's just another mechanism.
You say, "destroying a verb is less serious."
You say, "in fact, we could simply chown the verb."
You say, "and move it to us, pending review and appeal etc. etc."
glinda [to Bakunin]: yes. ok so lets clarify and posts what wizards can be
expectied always to do.
Bakunin [to glinda]: ok.
glinda . o O (like cops who confiscate the drugs... hee hee)
You say, "Banishment of players...on a scale that fits pmc-mooo."
Bakunin hopes to confiscate some good ones.
Bakunin says, "Should we talk about that now, or hash it out in *wiz?"
You say, "repossession of verbs can be unilateral and without warning, on
documented complaint."
Heinrich says, "Hey, do I still get to be a MOOtrooper?"
glinda yeah i bets.
Bakunin hmms. Hash.
Heinrich giggles
glinda [to Heinrich]: nope.
Heinrich shrugs
You say, "Sure, Heinrich...."
Heinrich says, "Good.  Less time."
Heinrich smiles
glinda [to Bakunin]: I say we begin it tonite, as we already have So we can
post it in the news.
Heinrich laughs about Barn and glinda
You say, "come one, we need someone to monitor @gripe."
Bakunin nods. Tonight it is.
You say, "How about...we post this whole buffer?"
Bakunin says, "Did someone log it?"
You say, "I'm working in emacs...I can save it easily."
Bakunin says, "Okay, I have no objection to posting it."
glinda [to all]: toward clarifying wiz policies: 1. wizards will strip sppof
and spamm verbs.
Daffy says, "@chown to wiz I thought?"
glinda has no objetions to posting it either.
glinda [to Daffy]: ok, @chown to wiz.
Bakunin [to Daffy]: Um, not on something the player owns.
You say, "what daffy said...chown to be nice."
Daffy [to Bakunin]: right... just the verb
Bakunin says, "Wait, wait. That'll give it wizperms."
The housekeeper arrives to cart oura off to bed.
You say, "copy..."
You say, "and destroy."
Daffy says, "sorry, that's what I meant.."
Bakunin nods. copy and @rmverb.
glinda [to Bakunin]: ok that's 1. what's 2.
You say, "banishment by players..."
glinda nods... and adds that wizards investigate *site_lock issues.
glinda adds, and duplicate characters, etc.
You say, "no more than two, in any (known) case..."
You say, "and we accept Bleary's suggestons, and Glinda's ammendments, on
the quota issues..."
You say, "to be duly posted...."
Bakunin says, "I just created an object called $badverbs (core object) to hold
copied, suspect verbs."
You say, "copy the verbs to it, then?"
Bakunin says, "Yes, and make them !r !x."
You say, "bueno.  We have some we should copy right now...Daffy, you night
duck, are you willing?"
glinda [to all]: re: quota that is, next to spam/spoof fests that is the
biggest bone of contention...
Daffy says, "um, ok... not too much tho"

You say, "I have to go read grad. applications ... whine whine."
You say, "no, just the ones recently reported in *wiz"
Daffy chuckles, and knows what/who you'll be reading.
Daffy attaches a weiner dog to Barney.
Bakunin says, "What about summary @toadings, in extreme circumstances?
Do we retain that right?"
glinda says, "yes."
You say, "I will save this buffer now, but it may not be pasted back into the
moo until tomorrow.  "
Daffy agrees
Bakunin nods.
You say, "I don't think..."
glinda says, "... hm..."
You say, "I'm reluctant to allow unilateral action at that level..."
You say, "just because of my recent experience with flamewars."
You say, "the heat of the moment is what produces summary toading."
glinda had thought that summary toading meant, simply, that there may be
some circumstances -- unforseen now -- in which @banishment will not
work effectively.
You say, "no behavior is so egregious and uncontrollable that the measures
we've already discussed aren't sufficient, I think."
Bakunin nods to glinda. Extremely abusive player on, not enough players to
banish, then what?
glinda [to Barney]: so better, in the name of clarity of design, retain that
right, rather than give it away only to reclaim it.
Bakunin . o O (@newt?)
You say, "right, @newt."

You say, "and shout or involuntary moo-wide communication verbs are
considered spammy, yes?"
glinda . o O (she turned me into a @newt.. i got bettah)
You say, "I'm not dead yet..."
Heinrich thinks he should retain right to summary @toad on those who he
deems are posting silly things to public lists
Bakunin got bettah.
Heinrich laughs and laughs
You say, "and I think we should have a mechanism....I'm serious now..."
glinda grins at barney.. didn't think you were.
Heinrich says, "Another bad joke from Hein."
You say, "like @banish, for stupid elfnames."
Heinrich shrugs
Daffy giggles
Bakunin laughs.
Daffy laughs some more. "or just barnyard animals?"
You say, "if ten people find your esthetic offensive, out you go."
Bakunin says, "What about summary @toading for Furry-type players?"
Daffy says, "MOOsthetics"
You say, "summary shaving.."
glinda smiles... are you sure you want to say that... you little dog you?
Daffy says, "and walking backwards"
Barney likes being shaved.
Bakunin morphs into a cuddly little fieldmouse with a pink ribbon and
nipple clamps.
glinda smiles...
Daffy says, "can he do that?  :)"
Heinrich thinks it's too bad all of you aren't here in RL as he just pulled a
big pan of pizzarolls from the oven


You say, "I gotta go.  Thanks for coming, thanks for putting up with me and
helping make PMCMOO run.  Don't forget the innocents, if there are any."
Bakunin [to Barney]: See ya, Barney. Take care.
glinda will remember you, don't worry.
Barney loves you all
Daffy wishes Barney luck... or stronger coffee
glinda laffs...
Bakunin waves innocently.
Heinrich waves to Barn
>@quit

Smack's note: None of the measures discussed here were ever implemented.
