Quiver's Building Tutorial
Wednesday, May 4, 1994

DISCLAIMER

This is not the end_all and be_all of building. This is an attempt to
integrate some basic techniques and information with an ability to
understand and create a believable space on the MOO. Building is mostly
grunt work. No amount of instruction will change that. The more time,
effort and thought you put into your construction, the better the result
will be.

SMOKE AND MIRRORS

Rule #1 is that you always build for the lowest common denominator. The
guest or new user that stumbles into your construction should be able to
enjoy every part of it and should find it perfectly understandable to
them. Too often builders fall into a sort of shorthand style where they
assume that the users will be knowledgable MOOers who can supply the
missing pieces. Assume nothing of the sort.

The basic (and practically only) tools of building are rooms, exits,
messages and descriptions. Your mission is to produce the *effect* of a
believable space using these text-bound instruments. They must imply
space, dimension, texture, movement and time. In essence, you must
become a writer. I view M*'s as a sort of four-dimensional, multi-user,
hyper-textual word processor. What is written with this tool can never
be successfully published or performed. It can only be experienced via
the tool that created it.

If you enjoy the descriptive powers of a writer such as Raymond
Chandler, wherein the details and texture almost overpower the plot, the
MOO should be a positive experience. Indeed, there is no plot in a MOO.
The writer cannot control the sequence of events or even which details
are read or skipped. This means that the basic room description (@desc
here as "<text>) must supply enough information to serve as the basis of
a complete experience of your construction. Everything else serves to
refine and broaden the experience.

This means that a room described with something like, "This is the room
where Willy lives." must be a failure, no matter how much detail and
messaging is added to it. Many players will simply pass through the
room, see this bland description and pass on to areas of more interest.
The room description simply fails to stir the interest of the user to
explore.

And the obverse can also be true. Stumbling into a room with a twenty
line description, even more lines of integrated messages, numerous
actual objects and (in the case of the Metaverse) an @rose display can
overwhelm even a seasoned user. A classic case of spam. When I encounter
such a room, my eyes glaze over, I read a few words and then head for
the nearest exit. I assume that I am being bombarded with information
that belongs in hidden details and that the room is probably poorly
constructed.

So, there is seemingly a fine balance between the terse and the verbose.
Although there can be no hard and fast rule, a good room description can
usually be contained in 5 to 10 lines. And I have found that the effect
is usually better if those lines contain something tangible. In other
words, don't tell people they have entered a strange and weird room,
rather, describe strange and weird things to them. They'll figure it out.

NUTS AND BOLTS

Enough of this flatulence! Let's design a simple room with an exit and
a few details. So we can have a bit of dramatic flair, let it be a
dungeon cell with a barred window and a heavy wooden door. Before you
read any further, decide for yourself how you would describe this space
and the actions it might contain. Write down your ideas and compare them
to mine. First we need to describe the cell...

        @desc here as "The smooth stones of the cell walls glisten in
        the dim light. The chill penetrates to the bone and your
        nostrils are filled with the smells of rot and decay. A dank
        film covers the flagstone floor.

What have I said here? You are in a cell. It is made of stone. It is
probably wet or damp. It is cold. Something in the cell is rotten and
smells bad. You are standing in some kind of muck. It is fairly dark in
the cell. By emphasizing the senses (touch, temperature, light, smell)
you can create in a few words a fairly effective image of a cell. Notice
how much is *unsaid* in this description that your mind fills in for
you. This is almost micro-economic in function; implying the whole by
examining the details.

Well, we have parented this room to #955 in the Metaverse, an
integrating, detailing room with failed_exit messages. This means we can
define our cell by adding details and messages. These will expand on
the impression we have already created with our @desc. To make it
simple, the walls will be to the north, south, east and west. Later we
will add a window to the west wall and a door to the east. But for now,
we will assume there are no doors or exits.

Details (@detail, @details) in a detailing room contain a description of
something a person might look at based upon the room description. There
is no actual object (and no quota cost), just a text string associated
with a noun or nouns. First, always assume that someone will look at all
the cardinal and ordinal points (n,s,e,w,ne,nw,se,sw). And if they do,
they should see something other than a default failure message. So, we
have already stated that the walls lie to the cardinal points, and walls
appear in the @desc, so we might create a detail like...

        @detail north,south,east,west,n,s,e,w,walls is "The wall rises
        to a height of at least fifteen feet. There are no cracks,
        crevaces or openings in its surface. A thin film of fetid water
        flows slowly over the smooth stones of the wall towards the
        floor of the cell...

Not exactly poetry, but it does serve to amplify the image of the room.
We now know the height of the wall and the source of the glistening. We
can also surmise the source of the smell and the muck on the floor. We
are also told that there is no exit in this direction. And what if
someone attempted to look at the stones? We could create...

        @detail stones is "They appear to be granite...

Details can be layered upon details. I would suggest examining the
pinnacle room of the Pyramid on Metaverse. It makes extensive use of
this technique. Other details might be for up, down (floor), smell, etc.
There is literally no limit. But we have said there is a window to the
west. First, what does this window look out upon? Lets assume there is a
Town Square room numbered #12345 that lies outside the cell and the
window is to look out upon this area. First we dig an exit...

        @dig window,west,w to #12345

Note that the west,w in this exit will override the west,w detail we
just created. Actual objects always superceed details. Now to upgrade
the parent of the exit to a more featured model we...

        @chparent window to #1011

This model has advanced messaging and integrates into our cell room
description. If you now look at the room you will see an additional
message displayed in the description that reads something like: You see
an undescribed exit here. This is the @look message on the window that
integrates with the room description. Lets set it to...

        @look window is "A thin shaft of light falls from the barred
        window high up the west wall.

After this addition the entire room description should now read as...

        The smooth stones of the cell walls glisten in the dim light.
        The chill penetrates to the bone and your nostrils are filled
        with the smells of rot and decay. A dank film covers the
        flagstone floor. A thin shaft of light falls from the barred
        window high up the west wall.

We don't want anyone, including ourselves to be able to use this exit to
pass into the next room. We simply want to use the messaging properties
of the exit to create an illusion. Therefore we lock the exit with...

        @lock window with me&!me

This logical lock fails everytime, for everyone (me and NOT me). We are
going to use the the @desc, the @nogo and @onogo messages (@nogo is
displayed to the user that fails to use a locked exit. @onogo is
displayed to others in the room when the exit attempt fails). In the
@desc (what you see when you look at the window) we will use a special
feature of this exit type that allows us to include information from the
destination by using tokens. The %w token lists all the players present
in the destination room, or "no one" if the room is empty...

        @desc window as "A small, arched window is set into the western
        wall of the cell well above your head. A thin shaft of sunlight
        falls between its heavy iron bars. You jump and manage to grasp
        the bars, pull yourself upwards and peer outside. You see the
        Town Square and recognize %w amongst the crowd. After several
        moments you lose your grip and fall heavily to the flagstone
        floor...

Again, all the nouns in this description could have an @detail
associated with them (sunlight, bars, etc). Now, if someone should
attempt to exit via the window we will give them this message...

        @nogo window is "You jump and manage to grasp the iron bars
        in the window high up the western wall. Slipping and struggling,
        you manage to brace your feet against the wall. Your muscles
        strain and your joints pop as you attempt to dislodge the bars.
        They hold fast. After several futile attempts you lose your grip
        and fall heavily to the flagstone floor of the cell...

And others in the cell with you see...

        @onogo window is "leaps several times and manages to grasp the
        iron bars in the small western window. %S struggles and strains
        trying to dislodge the bars and make an escape. Suddenly, %s
        falls from the wall and lands on the flagstone floor with a
        distinct thud...

The "o" messages on exits always provide the name of the player using
the exit as a first word. This particular exit type also has pronoun
substitutions: %s,%S for subject, %o,%O for object, %p%P for possesive,
and others. All such "tricks" are documented in the help messages
associated with with the generic parent (well, usually). These help
messages combined with the liberal use of @messages and @examine (and,
if you have a programmer's bit, @show) will tell you a great deal about
the generics. Trial and error, combined with asking more experienced
users, is the way *everyone* learned to MOO.

And what if someone attempts to go or exit in a direction in which there
is no exit? This generic (#955) gives you options beyond the default
failure messages...

        @north_failed here is "You take several steps to the north and
        find your way blocked by a high and solid stone wall...

        @onorth_failed here is "examines the northern wall of the
        cell...

        @southeast_failed here is "You find yourself wedged in a foul
        and dark corner of the cell...

        @osoutheast_failed here is "seems to be standing in the
        corner...

        @down_failed here is "You kick and swirl about the muck on the
        floor in search of an exit. It is far too disgusting to put your
        hands in. After several minutes you have managed to find only
        flagstones and slime...

        @odown_failed here is "seems to be tap dancing in the slime...

        etc...

Hopefully you get the idea. Descriptions, details and messages all serve
to define the space and the actions that might occur there. The more
fine and detailed your work, the greater the illusion. But what about
our real exit, the heavy door that leads out of the cell? Well, lets
assume it is dug and parented to #1011 and outfitted with both an @look
for the room and an @desc for when someone looks door,east,e. Lets also
assume it is unlocked (lucky us!) and can be freely used. These are the
messages I would set on it...

        @leave door is "You grasp the iron ring on the door and slowly
        pull it open. The hinges seem to be rusted. You leave the cell
        and walk out into...

        @oleave door is "pulls open the heavy wooden door to the east.
        It opens slowly and with a groan. %S walks through the open door
        and closes it behind %o...

        @oarrive door is "arrives from the cell to the west. %S closes
        the cell door behind %o...

        @arrive door is "This is much better!

"The @leave is what the exit user sees before he leaves the room.
@oleave is what those left behind see. @oarrive is what players in the
destination room see when the player enters from the cell. And the
@arrive is a final message that can be appended to the bottom of the
destination's description. And a note to new users: this exit only goes
one way! There is no return exit *into* the cell unless you dig it.

Several notes: There are generic exits that actually open and close,
either manually or automatically. These have a number of other messaging
options to set. This is a simple version created with only messaging.
Also note the subtle differences between what the user and the observors
see. I used this technique to make an elevator for the Town Hall in the
Metaverse. Anyone standing in any lobby of the building will see an open
and waiting elevator that contains whoever might be in it. When you
enter the elevator the door "closes" behind you and you cannot see out.
Therefore, the door is always closed to those who are *in* the elevator.
And the exit messaging for the various floors gives the impression of
the elevator moving and the door opening and closing. The simple fact
that you can't be in two places at the same time on the MOO can give a
builder an extra measure of design freedom.

THEMES AND SUCH

When I get an idea for an area, I never plan it out completely. I will
plan a single room and perhaps an exit or two. I will also consider what
this initial construct *might* lead to, but leave it all very loose and
open. For me, this keeps the building process fresh and interesting. And
if I build something that stinks or won't fit no matter what, I then
have little hesitation about nuking the entire thing and starting over.
Bored builders build boring stuff.

Never hesitate to "borrow" an idea or a technique from a construct that
you admire. And if you can't figure out exactly how they did it, never
hesitate to ask. And, at least at first, ask other builders and wizards
to look at your work and offer suggestions. And do this early-on in
your work before you have put in vast amounts of time and effort on what
might be a misguided project.

--- Quiver ---

"...for no man lives in the external truth among salts and acids, but in
 the warm, phantasmagoric chamber of his brain, with the painted windows
 and the storied wall."                                      --- RLS ---
